Merge700-659
700 Million Dollar Financial Plan (IF I HAD A MILLION DOLLARS)
698 A New Way To Save For Emergencies? (NEW DIVIDE)
https://www.wsj.com/articles/ups-to-offer-employees-a-way-to-save-for-emergencies-11603360801
There’s gold in them there hills!
As usual, the gold is in the comments. Because you get to see what other people believe and how well edumacated they are.
697 What Does Closing A Credit Card REALLY Do To Your Credit History? (HURT)
https://www.huffpost.com/entry/closing-credit-card-credit-score_n_5b9fffafe4b046313fbdec0f
Jeopardy Question: More than 9 in 10 of what generation felt financial stress and have had a sleepless night, are worried, and have felt anxiety over the future.
I’ll tell you the answer in a minute.
Let me ask you a question though:
Are you stressed out sometimes? Anxious? Worried about the future?
Studies show Generation Z is more anxious and stressed out than ANY other generation before them.
More than 9 in 10 Gen Z adults said they have experienced at least one physical or emotional symptom because of stress.
Things like feeling depressed or sad. Lacking interest, motivation or energy.
Why, it almost reads like a HorrorScope from a fortune cookie!
Today you will encounter someone that will make you smile.
It’s interesting because having a plan brings a calmer mind, right?
Someone can be $200,000 in debt. If they have a plan to overcome that obstacle, they don’t lack motivation or energy.
Are they still anxious and worried about the future sometimes? Of course. That’s normal.
And usually they are quite energized. Because they have a plan.
Back to the Jeopardy question:
More than 9 in 10 of what generation felt financial stress and have had a sleepless night, are worried, and have felt anxiety over the future.
Which generation would you guess?
Well you’re all correct. I made it up.
Statistics are useless. 64% of all people know that.
Every person on the planet has had a sleepless night before, worried about money, and been anxious about the future.
Every age. Every stage. Every wage.
This was the year, the plans didn’t work, right? That’s ok. Mine didn’t work either.
STORY.
Teenagers though, they have it double rough. Take away their phone. STORY.
And that’s why I proudly announce to you today, the Life Skills for Teenz course.
HALLOWEEN STORY.
CTA
696 The Taco Bell Retirement Plan (JOKER AND THE THIEF)
Heyeey, the Fonz.
Story of being 16, reading Model airplane magazines, in the back, sending for letters.
695 (TEENAGE WASTELAND)
This was about the Kpop IPO
694 What You Need To Know About 401(k) Rollovers (ROCK AND ROLL ALL NIGHT)
When you follow the money, you will end up on the doorstep of the truth, okay?
And the crazy thing about the truth is - no, not that it will set you free, the truth will save you! More specifically it will save you from getting ripped off.
Years ago, before I ever got into this biz. I drank the Kool-aid from the Master of Puppets. You know the one - this investment has got 12% returns! This one’s got 15%. This one’s got 18%. It goes all the way back to 1972! I just bought it the other day.
This was all new to me. 18%! I want that. And I contacted my financial planner and said I want that!.
He was polite, he said Scott, where they get this from is they have a few good years early on, and it inflates the returns for years.
And I found not only that was true, but it inflates the numbers for decades.
It’s kinda like the Dallas Cowboys. They’re America’s Team! They’ve won five Superbowls! They’re a dynasty!
They haven’t won anything since 1996! Half of us weren’t even alive in 1996! Who the heck cares! And they aren’t going to win again this year or next year either.
FYI I’m a season ticket holder for 12 years now. I opted to not buy tickets this year because I knew I’d be giving Father Jones an interest free loan for games I wouldn’t get to see. And now the tickets for the rest of the season are worthless so good move Turner.
You get it now, right? Crystal clear? You see I used to teach this with math. Which as you know is hard to do in audio format. Now, you explain this to anyone using a football team that either people hate, or love. A team that won a Super Bowl 25 years ago, isn’t the champion anymore.
There’s no parade.
There’s no special hats
There’s no World Champion t-shirts.
For something that happened 15 years ago.
And there are now 12/15/18% returns you get, for a couple years of home-rruns, superbowls, and what amounts to dumb luck, from 25 years ago or in 1972.
For financial rockstars like yourself, when you know the ins and outs of rolling over accounts, you end up with more money in your pocket. And you keep money out of the pockets of the financial pied pipers who put their retirement before yours.
And I spend all my time learning this stuff, so you don’t have to. I’m not selling you investments or professional services or on some fake math idea. I am selling you on this idea that you don’t have to pay expensive investment professionals for what amounts to a ratty 1996 world-champion t-shirt with holes in it.  Makes a good cleaning rag, not much else.
LIST OF 12.
We are launching Wednesday! And you can get in on a great pre-launch offer including an exclusive 30 day bonus course only for committed students like yourself.
Watch the first free video lesson here:
THE TWO OPPOSING FORCES THAT DETERMINES YOUR FUTURE SKILL LEVEL
There is a battle going on inside of every aspiring guitar master that determines whether he will remain on the intermediate level for the rest of his life - or win through to the ultimate level of mastery.
Just knowing about these two opposing forces is enough to change everything. Don't miss out on this video.
Thanks for subscribing
You probably heard this: Billionaire Elon Musk just came up with this crazy idea that all his Tesla electric cars will soon be self-driving.
Yes, Musk is a genuine genius and I'm a huge believer in where Tesla is steering the entire auto industry.
But I have never seen so many people get so excited about a single peach while ignoring the entire orchard.
All of the talking heads in the media go on and on about Tesla, but they're not telling you the really BIG story behind it all. It's the giant prize that Tesla and hundreds of other companies are chasing.
And before you ask, no... it's not self-driving cars. Self-driving cars could be almost insignificant compared to this new technology.
Consider that the global self-driving market is supposed to reach $42 billion by 2025, according to Boston Consulting Group.
But the tech I'm talking about? McKinsey and Co. believes it will be a $19.9 trillion market.
That's 452 times bigger than self-driving cars!
And as huge as that number is, consulting firm Accenture says 87% of consumers don't even understand what this technology is.
What an opportunity that presents!
It's going to be so big that companies like Cisco and Intel are budgeting billions to be a part of it.
But again, 87% of consumers don't yet understand what it is. 7 out of 8 people you see walking down the street are missing out.
And we believe that presents a huge opportunity for us individual investors, especially if we get in before the crowd.
But that crowd may be just around the corner... I've already seen this technology being pitched on ABC's Shark Tank show, where three young businesswomen TURNED DOWN the richest shark's $30 million offer for their company.
And their start-up is now worth 20x that initial offer! So why did they do it? What did this billionaire shark know that other sharks didn't?
Well, we think we know just what it is.
You see, there is a special technology that some are calling "bigger than the internet." In fact, it's the technology that is behind much of what Amazon does.
The masses will soon be catching on as this tech gets more and more popular. And I suspect when they do, they'll be focusing on obvious names... like Cisco and Intel... as they look for their share of the pie.
But we at The Motley Fool have put together a guide to get in on one company harnessing this transformational power, and we're sounding the alarm for investors to get in before this technology takes off.
Think about how many amazing technologies you've watched soar to new heights while you kick yourself thinking, "I knew about that before everyone was talking about it, but I just sat on my hands."
Don't let that happen again. This time, it should be your family telling you, "I can't believe you knew about and invested in that technology so early on."
That's why I hope you take just a few minutes to access the exclusive report our team of analysts has put together on this tantalizing tech, and hear more about how to get the names of a handful of stocks our team believes are positioned to capitalize on this major shift.
We call it the AI Disruption Playbook: An Investor's Guide to this $19 Trillion Market.
Inside you'll discover our top three stocks for this rapidly developing trend that could potentially become bigger than the creation of the Internet itself.
But please note: You may not be eligible to access this valuable research.
Because AI Disruption Playbook: An Investor's Guide to this $19 Trillion Market is privately published and only available to members of Motley Fool Stock Advisor.
Which is why I want to do something radical to make sure you can become eligible almost instantly...
I've been authorized to offer a one-day only FLASH SALE on Stock Advisor so that as many people as possible can get their hands on this report.
We're calling it the "AI Disruption Event"... and as long as you act before midnight tonight you can become a valued Stock Advisor member — and receive your AI Disruption Event report with the names of the three companies I'm talking about — for as little as $49 per year. That's an incredible, one-day only sale price up to 75% off!
Now, if you're not familiar with our Motley Fool Stock Advisor service, this is the award-winning online investing service created to provide easy-to-follow, monthly stock recommendations to individual investors.
That's right! Each and every month, over 400,000 investors tune in to discover which stocks we believe investors should be buying shares of today.
But that's no surprise considering since inception in 2002, Motley Fool Stock Advisor's AVERAGE stock pick has returned over 525%, which is quadruple the return of the market!
And trust me... you are going to want to see this report before you invest $1 on any tech company.
Even better — because I'm completely convinced you'll be impressed by the exclusive research I've put together on this stock — I'll make sure your Stock Advisor membership is backed by a 30-day 100% membership-fee-back guarantee that allows you to get your money back if you aren't impressed or ultimately decide Stock Advisor isn't right for you!
That's right, you can sign up for Stock Advisor today for up to 75% off, get the full details on these "AI Disruption" stocks, and then get your full membership fee back if you aren't completely satisfied.
This is your chance to get in early on what could prove to be very special investment recommendations — but you'll need to act quickly...
Because according to our analysts, this next-gen tech revolution looks like it's about to take off, and I think you'll want to get in on this before that happens.
693 Why Smart People Make Big Money Mistakes (DAZED AND CONFUSED)
Eric,
My son is a 19 year old college student who is interested in day trading. He has done some research but is confused about what might be the best account or way to start. I don’t have the knowledge to provide direction.
692 Are You Sure You're On The Road to Financial Freedom (SESAME STREET)
690 (SHOOT TO THRILL)
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
A box of birds is worth about two hours of time savings.
Spaghetti Strategy
691 Here We Go Again...Again (SAVED BY ZERO)
688 The Biggest Money Mistakes People Make in a Recession (ALL THE SMALL THINGS)
689 Warning: Eggs In Different Baskets STILL Break (LAND OF CONFUSION)
687 (MY HERO)
I'd love to propose you an awesome guest. How about hosting Timothy Sykes on your podcast, Scott?
Timothy Sykes is a penny stock trader. He is best known for earning $1.65 million by day trading while attending Tulane University.
He has been featured on The New York Times, Forbes, Inc., Bloomberg, ABC, CNN, and Fox.
He also has been a guest on the biggest TV shows in the world including The Steve Harvey Show and Larry King's show.
He is also Co-Founder of Karmagawa (1.1M Followers on IG) and Save The Reef (700K Followers on IG) where he is an ambassador for animal rights and to make this world a better place.
Timothy Sykes has 1.5M followers on Instagram, 550K on Facebook, 390K on YouTube, and 250K on Twitter.
Hi Sidney,
So he hit a home run 15 years ago, what's he done since then other than sell other people his secret system?
Let's see some audited tax returns breaking down 'money made from trading penny stocks and returns' vs. 'money made selling people training classes in penny stocks'.
Ephiany - hess, bad student
Hook/Story/Offer
HOOK: I always wanted to be a rockstar. In middle school I’d play air guitar with my friends listening to Kiss, ACDC, Metallica.
I finally bought a guitar when I was 21, because of a girl. I didn’t have money for guitar lessons, I decided I was going to teach myself. So I was buying this course, that online program, books. And still sucked. Eventually I had a job and could afford lessons. I still didn’t seem to be getting any better. I went through half a dozen teachers. And finally decided I don’t need to spend any more money on teachers. I’ll go back to teaching myself.
THE CALL
Then I saw Eric Clapton play guitar, I was mesmerized. Instantly I wanted to be that good. But how? Nothing had worked, I had wasted a lot of money and time. I went back to trying to find ‘the secret’ to getting big results.
Then I stumbled on this online teacher. Tom Hess. He was pretty intimidating at how good he was and his lessons weren’t cheap. I’m over it. I try it his way. I can’t get any worse, right?
And the second lesson, he sent me an article he wrote called - Are You A Bad Student, I Was.
And, like that, he had done the exact same thing. The simple solution he found was
Step 1: Found a great teacher
Step 2: Told the teacher what my long term goals were
Step 3: DO what the teacher told me to do to reach my goals.
Step 4: Continue to repeat Step 3 on an ongoing basis.
(It is in steps 1 and 4 that most people fail to follow through on.)
Because great teachers know how to teach. The key is to find the great teacher first, then do what they tell you to do!
In the five years I studied with Tom, which included spending $5,000 to go to a live in person event for six days in Chicago, my progress exploded. And I could play at an elite level.
I achieved my eventual goal of playing my guitar live, in front of 1,000 people.
But the cool thing was what I learned about reaching your goals and dreams. That one important decision was the key to achieving my dreams. I can say it like this: Find ONE person who’s done what you want to do, is an expert at teaching others what you want to do, and do what they tell you to do, until you’ve done it. You’ll save a lot of time. And a lot of money. And a lot of frustration.
A former employee of one of the financial pied pipers alleged in a new federal lawsuit she was fired from the company because she was pregnant.
Williamson County resident Caitlin O'Connor alleged in the new suit that she was discriminated against and denied her rights pursuant to the Family Medical Leave Act, Tennessee Maternity Leave Act and the Tennessee Human Rights Act.
O'Connor's attorney Heather Collins wrote in the suit the incident began when O’Connor requested FMLA paperwork for the birth of her child and requested ADA paperwork since her pregnancy is considered a geriatric pregnancy. After that, the company requested a meeting where they allegedly told Collins she would no longer work for the company.
"Ms. O’Connor finally had a meeting with the head of Human Resources and the board members and was informed she was being terminated due to her pregnancy and for a violation of 'company conduct,' because she is not married to her partner, the baby’s father," Collins wrote in the suit. “The Big Dog contends that her committed relationship and her pregnancy are a violation of its 'righteous living' policy."
Welcome all ye sinners to the Financial Rockstar show. One of our core values of the company - did you know we had core values?
People Before Profit
We gauge our success not by the profits in our bank, but by our ability to inspire and equip our audience to live a life of freedom, happiness and awesome experiences. This is about the people, not the profits.
Truthiness & Realness
Just like rock-n-roll, financial advice should be raw, authentic, and real. We’re here to provide unbiased advice and call out the garbage when we see it.
Life-On-Your-Own-Terms
Personal finance is just that, personal. No one else can tell you exactly what you need or want. We give you all the tools to craft your own plan based on your unique values and priorities. Because we believe everyone should be free to live life on their own terms.
Hope & Non-Judgyness
We’ve done stupid, too. We’re not here to judge, we’re here to inspire. No matter who you are or where you’re starting from, we all have the potential to live a life of financial freedom and happiness.
If that sounds like how you would run your own personal finance show, live your life, treat others with the respect they deserve, welcome fellow financial rockstar. It’s not for me to judge others. It’s for me to be a guide for positive financial change.
686  Is Fear Killing Your Wealth (PARALYZER)
HOOK: I was a money moron after college. I lost $40,000 by following bad investing advice.  That was most of my retirement savings that took years to earn.
There I was, a new investor trying to save for my future. We hear that from old people when we’re young, right? Save for your future? Nobody really tells us what that means though.
The thing is, at the time I was just understanding how to get started. How do you do that?
The big problem was that companies don't tell you how to manage a 401(k) so I had to go out and find books and websites. That meant suddenly I was in over my head because these books, these newsletters I was buying and subscribing to, all had their secret formulas and winning stock tips that I fell for.
I can tell you, just because someone has a New York Times bestseller, a radio show, 100,000 newsletter subscribers, it doesn't mean they have your best interest in mind.
Following that bad advice cost my $40,000, almost everything I had worked for years to save up. And it was, deflating. A huge punch in the gut. I keep these paper statements of my mistakes, to remind me. And every time I see them, it’s like, Ugh. That was a lot of money. Gone. You’ve lost money right? Think about how it makes you feel, even to this day.
Then, as if by chance, something amazing happened...
I saw this billboard on the way to work one day, and everything changed about building wealth for myself instead of falling for hidden fees and half truths and letting other people get rich off my hard work and my stupidity!
I started listening to Clark Howard. Here was a guy, I later found out, he didn’t have a crooked bone in his body. He was a straight shooter. He didn’t do advertising, no commercials, no endorsements, no products. He just talked about money, saving, and not getting ripped off.
Instantly it became crystal clear to me how to get started investing simply and easily to make more money, with less risk, because I saw I could have peace of mind knowing I was following a proven plan that would work for anyone.
My plan was to start investing regularly in the stuff that builds real wealth over time.
So I started investing on my own and in my 401(k) using this new knowledge. But I didn’t stop there.
Five years ago I had the opportunity of a lifetime. All that money I had been saving and investing using what I had learned, led me to financial freedom. The chance to do whatever I wanted in life.
And after a lot of soul searching, and internal fighting. The guy who had the nickname ‘quiet earring’ in college, decides it’s more important to help people than be silent.
I started a talk show answering questions about personal finance. I wanted to help others, the way I was helped. Even though it scared me  to death.
After that, we I wrote a book sharing everything I had learned along my journey.
Building on that success, we decided to host a webinar to help even more people.
It’s this masterclass - “99 Minute Millionaire Live”.
With 99 Minute Millionaire  I can now show anyone how to get started investing using proven principles, no matter how much money they have to invest, easier and faster than paying an advisor or broker for advice and paying their outrageous commissions.!
And that's why I'm so excited to share this with you so you can get these types of results too!
685 (LANDSLIDE)
The importance of your continued education about money and life is super important, so you can avoid the pitfalls of those that have walked the path your on before you.
I came home from work one day after I had spent months landscaping my backyard, to find a backhoe and a bulldozer on my emerald green lawn!
And it was Friday evening. Workers were gone. And, i’m stuck looking at these things all weekend without knowing why they are ruining my yard.
4x8 steel panels.
The guys come back Monday morning - hey, what’s up?
oh, there is a sewer line that runs through your backyard. It’s 20 years old and we’re repairing it. We should be done in a couple weeks.
Huh. They didn’t mention that when I bought the place.
Easements are what the county, town, and utility companies control on your property.
Condos - same thing. You have rules.
Apartments - same thing. You have rules.
It’s important to be aware of the rules. For most people, the rules will GETCHA at some point in your life. The more things you know, the more you can protect yourself from the gotchas.
Our new place, we’ve had to look over the survey a lot because, it’s pretty wild. We own a road. But, the road isn’t ours. We own these two oil wells. But, the oil wells aren’t ours. We own all this land on top of minerals. But the minerals aren’t ours.
It’s a crazy first time for this. It was a learning experience.
683
680 (MOVIN ON UP)
INTRO SONG
Moving on up, them song to the Jeffersons:
moving on up
to the east side
to a deluxe apartment
in the sky
Let me tell you a quick story about a time when I had to accept defeat, retreat, and reorganize to come back stronger... and what you can learn from it
(REMINDER: By the end of this story you want your audience to feel: inspired and wanting help)
So, what's the moral / lesson of the story you want them to take away?
- The thing I really want you to take away from this is sometimes we all need someone to be our anchor.
And what is the meaning / takeaway for them (life, business, etc.)?
- So what this means to you in your life / business is we all need to have people who keep us from making the big money mistakes.
So what is their next step at it relates to the story, moral and meaning you just shared with them?
- So here's your next step as it relates to what you and I just shared: sending in your questions, even ones you think 'there is no way I can ask this, this is just too xxx'.
Long time listener Catwoman here!
Think the last update I sent was that I had achieved a 3 month emergency fund after getting out of debt 2 years ago. I can now officially say  (as of tomorrow!) I now have a fully funded 6 month emergency fund! Thank you so much for your entertaining and informative podcast as this has definitely propelled my financial success as I was a complete money moron before I discovered this podcast. The fact that I have this emergency fund has been an unbelievable stress reliever during this pandemic that I finally have a safety net…in case I need it.
Another small achievement (?) is, I was in California for work back in January before the pandemic hit and had a REALLY nice rental car (a brand new Audi). I currently drive a 10 year old, paid-off, unexciting car (doesn’t even have automatic locks!) with a bunch of dents…but it works! After my work trip, I had the so called ‘new car fever’ and considered upgrading because I thought it ‘would be nice to treat myself’. WRONG!  I’m am SO GLAD I resisted that urge because once Corona hit, I’m now working from home 100% of the time, while saving at least a $200 a month on gas/tolls for a car that’s literally just sitting on the street daily. Thanks to your insight, I can sleep well at night not having a car payment for absolutely no reason – especially at this time.
Update from our Ferrengi listener:
Is there a way we both can make great profits and share
I have Two University Degrees, a Diploma in Education, being awarded the University Book Prize in Philosophy
In the current situation now, I have with very, very hard work completed very very special, valuable and popular Book to help many people in the world.
We both can work together closely to get the big profits and share
Okay thanks
OUTRO
682 Scholy #2
Ashley Davidson
ashleydavidson193@gmail.com
I was taught the key to success was broken into three parts, each equally valuable yet disproportionate in regards to the level of difficulty in achieving. The first being “risk” which is the ability to acknowledge something you are passionate enough to strive for and worthy of fighting wholeheartedly against the uncertainty that comes with. Second being “hard work,” the ability to have persistence to persevere in not only external but internal hardships. Finally, “money” a valuable piece of paper.
From a young age I was shielded from the harsh reality of influence money had, and was taught that my only limitation would be my own imagination. As years passed, I began seeking a desirable future which caused my ambition to flourish. Unfortunately, it was abruptly hindered from the real boundaries I was placed within. Living in a home, with a single parent that cared for multiple dependents, I was restricted and learned the substantial difference between “wants” and “needs”. My mother had always endured a life that consisted of living from paycheck to paycheck which caused her to carry the weight of financial instability.
However, she also carried the knowledge of knowing that money was not everything and can only be deficient if I allow it. My mother taught me the valuable lesson of risking everything for the life I aspire for. She embarked on a venture that risked the chance of everything she had to be taken away if she did not make the necessary funds. To this day she informs me that she “would risk everything all over again for my brother and i because the harder the challenge the greater the reward.” From her I learned that in order to live the life I yearn for I would have to fearlessly pursue it and be willing to put everything on the line. With this in mind, I knew I wanted to pursue a career that I was passionate about, in my journey of seeking my personal legend I luckily came across the performing arts. I sought colleges that majored in film and theatre, coming across many intriguing candidates. One common factor among all of them was a high cost of tuition. When I finalized my decision and informed my counselors of my choice. They all advised me to seek alternative schools due to my high financial need background. To seek an “obtainable” costing school all of which consisted of ones that remained in state rather than out. Being told that “even if AMDA is your dream college, you have to think realistically.” Since when was giving up on your ambitions a reality? Even teachers accepted this advice and gave up their acceptances to ivy league schools due to lack in necessary funds and fear of going into debt. This “reality” sadden me for i finally realized that money had the overwhelming power to influence one's future dramatically. While trying to process this information I could only think of one question “Do you regret not going, not risking it?” To my surprise each and every one of them said “yes”. The idea of living a life full of regret had only fueled my drive to pursue my goals even further. Taking the greatest risk of my life, I accepted my dream college and declined all others, placing myself in an all or nothing situation.
Leaving my loved ones, “to pursue a lifestyle that creates hope, change and happiness rather than just simple profit.” After making this decision I began my next step in securing the key to success. “Hard work looks a lot like opportunity.” This has forever been a virtue in my life, for I have always fought for my future. I worked to become a self managing actor, I took advantage of the resources that surrounded me and applied myself to the world. I auditioned for hundreds of agency’s, companies and positions. Furthermore, I began to look online for jobs, due to being in a pandemic I was once again limited. I sought contests that were giving away money, acting jobs and I saved all gifts received from birthdays and graduation. This is where I was fortunate enough to receive a portion of the final part.
I was able to make my first two payments towards my tuition in total of being over 8,000 within a span of only a month. These small achievements made me realize the true value of a dollar, I learned to be grateful for every cent. I learned that money is a piece of paper and only the person possessing it has the power to decide whether it can corrupt or aid. I learned to help others living in poverty in the future, because I know first handedly the difficulties one faces on a daily basis. Most importantly I learned to invest in an education that can help you perfect your craft.
681 Scholy #1
I got this FB message -
Backstory
- funny,
Desire
- what did you want to accomplish
external struggle - stop people from making money mistakes. bad advice. ripoffs. scams.
internal struggle - Story of $1 student loan. Losing $40k in retirement savings.
Wall
: What wall or problem did you hit within your current opportunity to start you on this new journey?
#1 - you don’t talk
#2 - you have no credibility
#3 - your David fighting Goliaths. Wall street. Financial industry. Pied Pipers of bad advice.
Epiphany
: What was the epiphany you experienced and the new opportunity
you discovered?
Plan
: What plan did you create to achieve your desire?
Conflict
: What conflict did you experience along the way?
Achievement
: What was the end result you achieved?
It’s never ending, trying to inspire people towards financial freedom.
Transformation
: What transformation did you experience?
I realized for myself, and I’m still working on - is this idea of ultimate happiness.
Stefania Aguilar
ishachessed@gmail.com
Growing up, money was always a topic of discussion in my household. Whether it pertained to the lack thereof, or where it would come from to pay for rent, food, and if any was left over, to paying off debt. My dad is a highly educated man, his career began working on computers for IBM. He later continued his study and specialized in teaching, today he is a special education teacher, working with children from low-income areas and teaching them communication skills they need to survive. Unfortunately, he always needs to maintain two jobs in order to stay afloat.
My mother has worked in the food industry, although she is a very talented artist. I have seen them both struggle; tugging at different ropes to get by. Although they could not afford many luxuries for my little sister and me, they taught us various important skills to thrive in this world and handle money well. Watching them has taught me a valuable lesson about the importance of money management;
How money is a tool, not the fuel of life. They have taught me how to enjoy life while continuing to save and be generous to others who are less fortunate. This journey has been a roller-coaster, filled with sacrifices, learning from consequences, and learning from others, but it has allowed me to find the balance to being a healthy young adult in the twenty-first century.
I began working at the age of 16, at my favorite ice cream place, Braums.
I learned valuable skills as a high schooler of what it meant to work. Life was never handed to me, I have to get up and work. While many of my friends did not start to work until after high school, I learned valuable skills of working diligently, and balancing in harmony work and school. Because of my time working in high school, as I pursued other work avenues, I was equipped with knowing work etiquette, the importance of time management, and the value of hard-earned money. Since then and as a sophomore in college, I have never been without work. I have been blessed to have opportunities in different industries such as food, retail, and health care. There were many times where I thought of being a working student as a burden, but I have seen how it’s paid off (literally) and helped me develop into a hard-working employee. Working 40 hours a week and balancing difficult Nursing Prerequisite classes couldn’t be described as simple, but instead discipline.
Shortly after high school, I had to buy my first car. It was tempting to want to take out a loan for a brand-new Honda Civic, cherry red, with seat warmers and a banging audio system. But I knew better. I knew that once that car was driven off the lot, it would lose thousands in value. So as an alternative, I made the decision to sacrifice power windows and bought my first car off craigslist’s. After a little bit of hunting, I found my very own Toyota Matrix 2004, sport edition, which cost me $3,500. With high mileage, but a working engine and AC, my matrix has been loyal to me in every way since then. I looked back at the struggle I had witnessed my parents go through.
The student debt that weighs heavily on their shoulders and the high insurance for cars bought through a loan; I did not want to add a burden to my load with graduate school just around the corner. Instead of choosing to dive into a car loan, asking my parents to co-sign, and giving into extremely high insurance rates, I put materialism aside, and saved big time.
Although I sympathize with people that seek to fulfill the American dream of attending a 4-year university for their basic core classes – I chose to take a different route. I decided to make one of the most intelligent decisions of my college career: to attend my local community college to complete my undergraduate. Where I saw my friends spending $1000 per credit hour, I spent just $100 per class. Where I saw my friends spending hundreds of dollars on-campus boarding, I enjoyed the sweet comfort of my home. I wanted my life to be different, I knew that the last thing I wanted to my name was college debt. I remembered my dad, in his pursuit to get his masters degree in education, the system left him with 80 thousand dollars in student loans. No wonder we have such a shortage of qualified and passionate teachers.
Budgeting is a skill I have learned from my parents and has been very useful during these past years. As a golden rule, I try to save around 50% of my check for nursing school and graduate courses I plan to take, as well as having money set aside for emergencies. You and I both know, we live in such unpredictable times, it's important to be prepared. I calculate my monthly bills out of my paycheck, set money aside for food, pleasure, and generosity. When my monthly paycheck money is deposited, my first fruits are given away to the less fortunate or a ministry of my choosing; lately, it has been a small church in my home city in Colombia. My second priority is seeking to pay any debt I might have, in this case, it’s my credit card. Because Credit is extremely important to help build my credentials, I use my credit card for gas and sometimes groceries, never anything else. This helps me to keep my credit card active and have small enough amounts that I can repay every month. I divide the remaining in portions, moving 50% of what is left into my savings account. When the month is over and I receive the following paycheck, I usually have some leftover money and transfer that to my savings account as well. This system has been really beneficial and has helped me to save exponentially in college.
There was a time in my life when spending money on trips, clothing, accessories, and phones were essential; I had bought into the American Dream that leads to debt, emptiness, and an accumulation of things. Today, my philosophy of spending is much different, I rarely visit shopping centers or spend time eating at restaurants. If I am looking for a particular item, I am quick to visit local stores such as Target, Ross, TJ Maxx, and if it’s a special event, Nordstrom Rack. These stores have been proven to provide quality, for a low price. My golden rule is, it’ll end up on sale eventually. I don't sweat very much about "new collections", everything you see was "new" once. Now, its old. While going out to eat, I’ve realized that this is a serious waste of money, and often times the food does not justify the price. This is why for most meals; I cook at home. Taking advantage of my mother’s tasty cuisine and learning from her skills for my future.
Although I will say, I can’t ever deny going out once in a while for some good curry with friends and family.
Over the past couple of years, I have had to make significant sacrifices. But I will argue that they were in my best interest. I am thankful that I have little to no debt, and the one I do have is working in my best interest. It is unfortunate to learn from the mistakes of others, but there’s an old proverb that says it’s better that way! Why should we have to make the same mistakes as our parents and continue to feed into debt? Let us break the cycle and be a generation that is fueled by generosity and hard work. Although I have never experienced the events most college kids have, I am grateful for the lessons I have learned today, living at home and working diligently for all I have.
For the ways difficult moments have shaped me and molded me. I hope that the future is different, I really do. I hope that we begin to teach high school students about their taxes, car loans, and college debt. I hope that we begin to walk away from an “I want” culture, and turn into a “let me help” kind of people. As a future nurse, I am thankful for the difficulties I have had to face. I know that these challenges will help me in being a compassionate and sympathetic caregiver. It has never been easy, but it was surely paid off.
679 It’s 2008 All Over Again! (HERE I GO AGAIN)
INTRO SONG
Whitesnake: Here I go again on my own!
Success Story:
Taryn,
I graduated from physical therapy school with over $100,000 in student loans. I paid the minimum payments and spent the extra for about 2 years. Then I started listening to your show. I realized how much money I was losing to the interest. Your show spurred me to trim my expenses, refinance to a lower rate, and eventually pay off my entire loan in 6 years instead of 10. Thanks to you and the entire Rockstar Team!!
The Scott Alan Turner Show keeps me motivated. I keep Scott’s words in mind whenever I’m tempted to go out to lunch, buy a Five Bucks coffee or spend on other frivolous things.
OUTRO
Play Senfeld Manuer clip
* BLACK KOW - ask, and you shall receive.
The answer is always no if you don’t ask.
If you don’t ask for the raise.
If you don’t ask for the job.
If you don’t ask for the date.
If you don’t ask for the deal.
If you don’t ask the question, you’ll never get more smarter. You won’t know what you don’t know.
For the love of all that is holy, I’ve been forced to share my success for six years now in this business. Because you shouldn’t take advice from money morons. Former money morons like me yes, but not current money morons.
Yet to date, not a soul has ever asked me in personal conversations - turner, how did you do it?
678 What Should I Do With Extra Money I Earn? (LAND OF CONFUSION)
SONG:
Land of Confusion, Genesis
Can't you see
This is a land of confusion.
OUTRO
My name is Megan Begeman, I am a 27 years old, Accounts Receivable Specialist from Portage, MI.
Here's my backstory: growing up my mother always shared too much about the family finances so at a young age I built a prominent fear of financial failure. In her defense, I would beg to know because I was very sensitive to the household stress. In 10th grade, I took my first accounting class. That's when I decided I wanted to be an accountant. I wanted to be smarter with money than my parents and eventually be able to advise them and ease into managing their budget to help them. I took accounting II, then accounting III and built myself a solid base before going to college. I graduated from Alma College in 2016 with a Bachelors of Arts in Professional Accounting. I had a great budget set up and was well on my way to the "financial success" I was searching for.
Unfortunately after changing jobs a few times I got myself into trouble:
I have a butt-load of student loan debt. One of the loans I pay for is a Parent Plus loan and absolutely HUGE, in my mother's name. There is also a student loan in my name.
I do have credit card debt that I am ashamed of because I'm smarter than that. I formed a strict habit of living paycheck to paycheck that was not necessary. By this I mean, I never worried about paying my bills on time or where the money was coming from, I was just not very responsible. I would put too much money away for future bills and not allocate anything for my living necessities (gas, food, dog food etc.) or emergency fund. If I didn't have enough in my checking account for whatever I was buying,
I'd put it on the card. Then instead of putting the money I did have toward my card, I'd keep it and use it for something else - sometimes for something I needed, sometimes not.
I also, out of compassion, signed as a guarantor on my best friend's student loan. Looking back now, I see how ridiculous it was and wish things could have gone differently. But in the moment, it felt like the right thing to do and I need to own that choice. This has hurt me more than I expected.
I have been working with my aunt, Brenda Bultema - one of your many Financial Rockstars, on a plan. Recently we have put together a new budget and are ready to start making other moves.
* Last week we tried getting a 0% interest for 18 months, balance transfer credit card to pay down my balance faster but I was shot down because there is so much debt against my name. I then tried to see if my credit union could lower my interest rate and they said I was already at the lowest rate available. I will continue to look at other offers so I can move the balance.
* I have asked my friend to refinance the loan we share to take my name off of it - there are a few things the loan servicer has asked her to do before they can refinance.
* I also need to review the student loan in my name to see if consolidating it would lower the interest rate.
* In time we plan to review my 401K. My employer automatically contributes 3% of my salary to a traditional IRA regardless if I make a contribution. I contribute $5/paycheck to a Roth IRA that is invested at the most aggressive level because I have 55 years or so until retirement. It will gradually be lowered from highly aggressive to low risk as time goes by. Both are through Rose Street Advisors.
* I have a Kohl's and a Macy's credit card, both zero balance, rarely/never used
* In 2018 I attempted to get approved for a mortgage but I didn't have the $4000 saved for closing costs so that application wasn't submitted.Purchasing a house is a goal, but not the short-term objection of my budget review.
* Small victory: On June 24th I paid off my car loan, 2 months early. The payment was $252/month. I did not intend to pay it off early. I had accidentally made an extra payment last year. And in June, I had already put aside July's payment. This is how it got paid off early. The loan was 4 years, $252/month starting 8/20/2016.
Attached are my "Financial Rockstar" Budget and loan details with additional notes.
My Aunt Brenda and I wanted to know your advice on a couple of items.
- What should I do with any extra side money I earn? Should that go straight to the emergency fund or credit card or get split between both?
- If we receive another stimulus check, where should that money go?
- In September I will have an extra paycheck, where should that money go?
- How does this plan look?
- Is there a way to convert my employers 3% into my401(k)/ a way to convert it to a Roth? My Aunt Brenda thinks she’s heard of a “backdoor roth”. I was told when I set up my contribution there was not a way to put my employer’s contribution into my Roth.
- Do you agree I should put the August and September loan payments toward an emergency fund?
- Is there anything else you'd advise I do?
If you have any questions, I'd be honored to speak with you and answer them the best I can.
677 How Much Money Do I Need For Freedom (I WANT TO BREAK FREE)
REAL ESTATE - You never make money when you sell a house. You make money when you buy a house.
677.mp3
SONG
I want to break free (QUEEN)
What price freedom? There are two prices.
Going to tie this into the newsletter
Cullen
First, we went through little bit of trouble. Nothing serious but my wife required surgery. We are all fine and recovered now! Then the Dog suffered a backyard accident chasing a squirrel. She is now paralyzed in the back. It has been tough, but she is happy.
My daily commute was 90 minutes to 2 hours.
There was a shuttle, but even with that I felt horrible. To top it all, I went through something that is pretty common here in the Bay Area: "The 4 year cliff”.
Google tossed in a lot of stock to lure me into joining. Usually stock grants are paid in 4 years installments. So my stock refreshes never really made up for the initial grant. And then when I hit the 4 year mark, I actually got a pay decrease! I warned my boss several times, but he said his hands were tied up and there was nothing he could do.
So I started looking. I interviewed with Facebook, and got an offer, but I refused because I somehow got a bad vibe about it (sweatshop!). I also interviewed with Workday. I got offered more money, and my life in general is better.
My commute is now 11mins, including dropping my little one at school (well, not anymore because of COVID). Awesome benefits. I can't complain.
Plus, when we get to a certain stage of life, and money is slowly becoming a non-issue, things change dramatically. I pretty much know you can relate to it.
Right now I am thinking about fully retiring in the next 5 years or so. We want to move to another country (Portugal) for good. But there is still a lot to be done to materialize that.
How much money do you need for freedom?
Price #1: 6-12 months of cash. That’s your 6-12 month emergency fund. Any family, single income, double income, no income, with that much cash, can leave a bad situation and get things figured out in that amount of time.
If you don’t believe you can, it’s because you don’t believe. Not that it can’t be done. Don’t blame the plan, blame the execution of the plan.
Imagine yourself with 6 months of expenses, all in cash. Many of you have this. You know what it’s like.
Think about - what would that feel like? How would going into work tomorrow be different than today.
You wouldn’t be a doormat anymore.
You would have ultimate confidence. Because you don’t need that job to pay the bills.
You would have a little bit of a bad attitude, and I would love you for it. Because - you’ve gained the upper hand.
See many bosses and companies, have this strange sense of power and entitlement. The think they own you because they give you a paycheck. And they do if you gotta pay the bills. Even on some small level. At the end of the day - they own the job. It’s not your job, it’s theirs.
When you have cash, you have power. They still own the job, but they don’t own you.
My second apartment out of college. I rented the cheapest place I could afford that was somewhat nice.  I went from the most expensive place with a roommate - dumb - to a single bedroom that was kind of average. And as I was sleeping one night something ran across my chest. Why I jumped out of bed 10 feet in the air flipped on the lights to see this giant cockroach running into a corner.
Had I been 60 years old, I would have died right then from a heart attack. I was just 22 though.
Like a week later after the complex sprayed for bugs again, I was outta there. I’ll pay to break the lease, Turner might be in debt and living paycheck to paycheck, but he ain’t living paycheck to paycheck with the kind of roommates that can survive a thermonuclear explosion.
So I bought my freedom and moved. It’s kinda like that.
When you have money, even a little, you don’t have to put up with stuff like that. Bug infested apartments.
When you have money, a little more, you put up with even less. Then you can work a job you love.
When you have money, a lot more, you have ultimate freedom. Then you work because you want to, not because you have to.
******
DEAR SCOTT
I HAVE TWO UNIVERSITY DEGREES AND A DIPLOMA IN EDUCATION AND AWARDED THE UNIVERSITY BOOK PRIZE AND WE BOTH CAN WORK CLOSELY TOGETHER TO GET GREAT PROFITS. THANK YOU
OKAY THANKS
SURE SCOTT CHEERS
REGARDS
******
OUTRO
SIGN OFF:
Letter from a Ferengi this week:
676 One Financial Mistake Every Adult Needs To Avoid (FREE)
Wondering how many people here have an experience like mine recently. We are Edm on bs 4,5&6, and have been focused totally on getting mortgage paid off for most of the year when we started to realize how much we were "putting up with" as we sacrifice to pay mortgage off. Phones that were 5 generations old, torn hoses bandaided together, tools and kitchen utensils that barely worked etc. So we decided to take a month off of extra mortgage payments and replace a lot of those items before stepping back on the gas to complete bs6.
They are mostly small items and we cash flowed everything. While it might cost us an extra month to finish bs6, I think we will enjoy those months more if we are not surrounded by broken stuff.
Any thoughts.... Would you do the same?
Long game means that some times you can step back and enjoy or do what needs done. It's your life and plan .
Maintaining what you have, that is, fixing what’s broken, is an important part of being frugal.
Intro Song:
Soup dragons
"I'm free to do what I want any old time”
If you asked Americans how much money it would take to be considered "financially comfortable" in January 2020, before the coronavirus pandemic hit the U.S., the responses would look a lot different than they do today.
In January, Americans said it would take a net worth of $934,000, on average, to be considered "financially comfortable." In June, that number dropped considerably, to $655,000.
The numbers come from Charles Schwab's 2020 Modern Wealth Survey, which asked 1,000 adults between 21 and 75 what personal net worth it would take to feel "financially comfortable" and "wealthy." The January wave of the survey was conducted from January 9 to January 16, 2020, while the June wave was conducted between June 25 and July 2, 2020.
The responses varied between age groups, with Gen Xers (which Schwab defines as those ages 40 to 55) needing the most to feel comfortable: $943,000 today and $1.5 million in January.
Win One for the Teachers
A unit of American International Group Inc. AIG -2.72% agreed to pay $20 million to settle claims that it failed to disclose payments intended to draw more business to the firm, the first case to emerge from a crackdown on practices in the market for teachers’ retirement plans.
Florida teachers saving for retirement through 403(b) plans—similar to corporate 401(k) plans—weren’t told about an arrangement by which the parent of Valic Financial Advisors Inc. paid hundreds of thousands of dollars to an entity owned by local affiliates of the Florida Education Association, which in turn promoted Valic Financial Advisors’ services, the Securities and Exchange Commission said Tuesday.
Valic benefited in two ways: Teachers bought its annuity products and signed up as clients of its investment-advisory business, paying Valic an annual fee to manage all of their assets.
The case against Valic, which neither admitted nor denied the SEC’s civil claims, is the first to emerge from an enforcement crackdown launched in 2019 and focused on sales practices in the approximately $1 trillion 403(b) market.
The SEC’s investigation found Valic paid the salaries of three employees at the entity linked to the Florida union. At meetings and seminars where teachers sought investment advice, the three touted Valic products, presenting themselves as workers for the union entity and not disclosing they were also paid by Valic, the SEC said.
The Journal reported in December that the union entity was known as Creative Benefits for Educators. As recently as October 2019, teachers’ unions in central Florida were advising members to take retirement questions to Mary L. Thomas, a consultant at the union-owned firm—and a longtime Valic sales representative, according to regulatory records.
After the Journal asked about her dual role, the Creative Benefits website went dark last fall. At the time, a spokesman for Creative Benefits said that it no longer employed Ms. Thomas and two other consultants.
Teachers who bought Valic’s Portfolio Director, an annuity popular in teachers’ retirement plans, paid fees of up to 2.3% of assets annually. Valic earned $29 million from its annuity products sold during the 13 years it dealt with Creative Benefits. As part of the settlement with the SEC, Valic agreed to charge lower fees to teachers who signed up to have their money managed by the company, under a “wrap-fee” program.
You must take care of you. The union reps, the political hacks, the burocrrats, they take care of themselves first, and you, about 18th. That’s after they have spent your money on posh vacations to the finest resorts to have their yearly ‘retreats’. I’ve been to these retreats! They aren’t meetings. They are parties with amazing food and booze and $350 a night hotel rooms. Paid for, by everyone except them.
Success story:
Barbara,
When COVID started, we hit the pause button on our debt payoffs and stashed the cash. I’ve was furloughed for several months. When I got back to work we had extra money and just paid off our car! I’m loving not having $432 a month go towards a truck. Thanks for keeping us motivated! We tell all our friends about the show.
Outro
675 Scared Money Makes No Money(1999)
SAVINGS - Water softener -> Hot water heater
PERSONAL - I have a ticket to an exclusive event. The mystery box celebration.
PERSONAL - Gardening as an investment in sanity.
OpenDoor - my review. Doesn’t work.
Intro song (Prince 1999):
Two-thousand-zero-zero party over
Oops out of time
So tonight I'm gonna party like it's 1999
HOOK: Scared money don’t make no money! Says one newly minted genius investor.
MY STORY: I got started investing at about 24. Like most people I know of it, but they don’t teach it schools. My parents never invested. They didn’t have retirement accounts. So I bought books. Today, I still buy books to learn from.
Stuck at home in lockdown, millions of Americans are trading the markets like never before.
>>Why put $1,000 in a 401(k) and at the end of the year it might be $1,100, when you can get on RobinHood and turn $1,000 in $1,500 in a couple hours?
>>I get it. It’s frustrating watching small amounts of invested money stay small.
Oh, you’re $6,000 IRA is worth $6,000 after six months? My option trading which I do over morning coffee got me $15,000 in the first couple months. It paid for a down payment on my new 2020 BWM. And I’m having neon lights added to the under carriage!
It’s hard to argue with those results! I get it. I lived it. I lost it.
At E*Trade Financial Corp., ETFC 2.34% investors opened roughly 260,500 retail accounts just in March, more than any full year on record. Newer rival Robinhood Markets Inc., maker of a wildly popular trading app, logged a record three million new accounts in the first quarter.
Individual investors’ last big binge was for dot-com stocks in the late 1990s. That era saw money-losing technology companies vaulted into the stratosphere and spawned a culture of day traders who played the markets as a full-time job.
“I feel like Sonic the Hedgehog, collecting my coins,” said real-estate agent Sharmila Viswasam, 38 years old, of Lake Linganore, Md., referring to a videogame where the character collects gold rings.
Before the pandemic, she hadn’t considered investing beyond the money she had put aside in her 401(k) retirement account, much less day trading. Now, she says, she trades thousands of dollars in stocks every day.
Ms. Viswasam’s identity had been so entwined with her real-estate job that she named her dog Sold, and made him an Instagram account under the name SoldTheRealEstateDoodle. But when she couldn’t work, her unemployment checks weren’t enough to pay her bills. Her boss suggested she try day trading. She read “Trading for Dummies,” watched YouTube videos, opened an E*Trade account and dove in.
Ms. Viswasam embraces a risky trading style. “Scared money makes no money,” Ms. Viswasam said.
She mostly buys blocks of stocks that trade for less than $5 a share and sells many of them within a day or two. She doesn’t ever consider other more conventional stock picks, such as Amazon.com Inc., because shares of those companies are pricier and tend to be less volatile day to day.
The potential for big gains—increases of mere pennies per share in some cases—outweighs the risks, she said. Starting with $25,000, Ms. Viswasam said she had played price swings on penny stocks to a $65,000 profit through early July all on her phone.
Yes, call me a scaredy cat. When you watch $40,000 become $5,000, and that’s the end. I’d be scared.
It’s kinda like when I’m pulling a hot dish of delicious chocolate brownies out of the oven. I wear a mit. And I yell at my kids - get back! You’ll get burned!
Because they don’t know. I know. A hot pan - that sucker burns.
Gaining Influence
Retail traders like Ms. Viswasam are gaining influence in financial markets.
But there are reasons for concern about the overall performance of individual investors. For one thing, some academic studies have demonstrated the challenges individuals have in trying to beat the market. Barclays examined trades by Robinhood customers between March and early June and concluded that the more they bought a specific stock, the worse that stock performed.
Matt Miller, a 66-year-old in Kernersville, N.C., had mostly pursued a buy-and-hold strategy for his first 30 or so years as an investor. But he’s traded more actively since the pandemic hit, he said, buying a number of stocks popular with day traders.
Those included entertainment company Genius Brands International Inc. and Luckin Coffee Inc., which was delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market after disclosing that as much as $310 million of its sales last year were fabricated by some employees.
Mr. Miller, a former employee of chemical company Henkel, said he turned a profit from his investments most years, and has made money so far in 2020. But in part, he says, he trades for fun.
“I’m in the park right now and it’s 90 degrees in North Carolina, and it’s sunny, and I put in two trades this morning and walked away from it,” he said.
“But in the wintertime, when it gets to be 20 degrees Fahrenheit here or it’s snowing and raining, it’s a perfect hobby for grandpa,” he said
Stanley Barsch, Ms. Viswasam’s boss who got her into investing, touts the stocks he trades to his more than 76,000 Twitter followers, who refer to him by his handle, StanTheTradingMan. He also hosts his own Discord channel, where a tighter-knit group of day traders circulate unconfirmed rumors as potential catalysts for big gains.
Mr. Barsch, 42, is a former police officer turned real-estate broker, who said he had been making a steady six figures since 2010. Now, he boasts of how he says he turned the $20,000 he put into the market in January and February into more than $450,000 as of mid-July without any prior trading experience.
Stan the trading man has a picture of himself on Twitter - you guessed it - on the steps of a private jet. With no luggage, no suit, it looks like he’s going to do yard work. Maybe he was at an air show, who can say.
Many of you asking the best platform for charts and scanners. Trading Ideas is who I use. You can access here to signup: https://lddy.no/nq9i promo code SUMMERTIME for 15% off.
Earn up to 35% commissions on every sale resulting from your referral!
Mr. Barsch took his digital sessions to a new level last month.
He began live streaming interviews with penny-stock CEOs, in hopes of drumming up support from his followers. More than 65,000 people watched the first stream with Vislink Technologies Inc. Chief Executive Officer Carleton Miller in mid-June. The company’s shares climbed as high as 98 cents that day before closing at 79 cents, up 15%.
His second live stream backfired, underscoring the potential pitfalls of penny stocks. Mr. Barsch hosted a live stream on June 25 with Alfred Poor, the CEO of Ideanomics Inc., a financial technology company that had shifted its focus to the electric vehicle market. Mr. Barsch said he bought shares soon after the interview aired because he expected the stock price to bounce.
The price bump never materialized though. Short-selling firm Hindenburg Research accused Ideanomics of being a fraud several hours after the interview, sending shares down 21%, followed by a further 40% retreat in the next day’s session.
Mr. Barsch said he lost $27,000 on the trade. Ms. Viswasam said she lost roughly $600. Ideanomics issued a statement several days later, rebutting the fraud allegations. Shares rose 43% on the day Ideanomics denied the allegations.
Some people took to social media, accusing Mr. Barsch of engaging in pump and dump, one of the oldest forms of market fraud and involving people usually circulating rumors or fake news to lift a stock’s price while leaving buyers with shares that will soon plummet in value. Mr. Barsch denied the claims.
ACTION:
Your patience at being a boring investor is what’s going to pay off in the long run. Nobody in the history of the universe has consistently made money in any of this style of investing. Sure, you can make a quick buck. More sure - you can lose 10x those quick bucks.
My gambling friend has a philosophy if you feel the absolute need to gamble in the stock market - pick the # amount you’re going to use. Then, when it’s gone, you’re done. $1,000 grows to $2,000, quit. Or take you’re $1k off the table and mess around with the rest.
The likely scenario for 99% of people is this - $1,000 is going to become $500.
I’m working for you financial rockstars, to save your bacon from this garbage style of investing. Our only glory is having more money over time. We usually don’t have more money to brag about, over night. Leave that to the losers.
I guarantee you can become rich and a millionaire over time. I guarantee you will not become rich and will never be a millionaire over night. Or during Covid. Do you know how many wealthy became wealthy day gambling? 1 out of 100,000 if I had to wager my own bet. I know a few personally. And usually their money came from selling other people the “secrets”!
You’re 401k, you’re ira, you’re house, you’re emergency fund, you’re saving funds, your patience, your contentment, your peace of mind, your sanity. That is your glory. You are financial rockstars. You will win. You will have more money. You will be the millionaire next door nobody has ever heard of.
“This gives me instant gratification and satisfaction,” said Mr. Barsch. “It’s also a moneymaker. I told my wife earlier this year that I’m going to be a millionaire.”
Imagine when you’re out at the restaurant eating the steak and lobster -  or the fake steak for my vegetablarian listeners - you’ll have a sly smile on your face. Deep in your big ol brain will be thoughts of peace, love, and harmony. Because you have money, you won’t need to think about it. You can enjoy your meal. The house will be paid for. You’ll have financial freedom. You’ll drop $100 tip for $75 meal, just because the server looked like they needed it.
Success story:
Andrew,
Scott!! I gotta share this! I paid off all my student loans. $114,000 in 7 months! January 2020-July 2020!
God it feels so good! Like a million pounds lighter!
Outro:
673 Become A Millionaire By The Next Recession (TIMES LIKE THESE)
Angela - I love your advice this week! And every week for that matter... I thank you for putting a lot of thought into sending a truly good message to keep us all motivated and SANE! Well wishes to you and your family,
thanks!
“Quit Like a Millionaire” co-author Kristy Shen shares the investing lessons she learned after 2008 that helped her retire in her 30s.
In early 2008, when I was a couple years out of college and had a full-time job, starting to invest some of the money I was earning seemed like the responsible, adult thing to do.
At first, I considered real estate. At first glance, housing seemed like a safer bet than some other potential assets. But living in Toronto, the most expensive city in Canada, the average cost of a house was over a million dollars, and that just seemed like a recipe for debt and undue amounts of stress. So instead of buying a house, I decided to invest in the stock market.
Investing was initially not an easy concept for me to grasp. I grew up in rural China before immigrating to Canada when I was 8 years old. At one point my family was living on 44 cents a day. So becoming a millionaire seemed like a dream that was out of reach.
That was especially true when my foray into investing collided with the Great Recession. There were some days that were pretty scary, but instead of panicking, my husband and I decided to learn everything we could about wisely investing for the long term. And, as a result of that trial-by-fire experience and supercharging our savings, we grew our portfolio to seven figures and retired in our 30s to travel the world.
The last few months have seen the pandemic affect every aspect of our lives. But the important thing to remember is that you can find opportunity during uncertain times like this one, especially if you want to start investing.
These are three lessons I learned from the 2008 recession that still help us manage our portfolio today.
Think about down markets as buying opportunities
If you were already a little nervous about investing before the pandemic hit, seeing the recent volatility of the stock market, after 10 years of a bull market, might deter you from getting started.
The turbulence this year has been understandably unsettling, but remember: Some of today’s millionaires were born out of the last recession. Essentially, if you’re a long-term investor, a down market gives you an opportunity to invest “on sale,” which positions you to grow your wealth as the market recovers.
Some of today’s millionaires were born out of the last recession.
That’s what we did during the Great Recession. Our net worth was $135,000 at the time and it was liquid, instead of tied up in a house or other big purchase. So we decided to invest that money and take advantage of periodically buying as the stock market fell so that we could pick up units on sale. Even though our portfolio dropped initially, it recovered in just two years, and we were able to participate in the decade-long bull run afterward.
While this worked for us, the most important thing to remember is that you don’t need to have a big sum like that saved already to start investing. You can start with whatever amount you feel most comfortable with.
Even though things are uncertain, I would encourage you to take this time to start investing. While my husband and I don’t have paychecks coming in from 9-5 jobs anymore, I know that we can use the lessons from 2008 to invest what we earn from our passion projects, and provide for our future.
Fire dating app.
https://firedating.me/
674 Pros and Cons of Homeschooling (SCHOOLS OUT)
Homeschooled kids often turn out to be a bunch of weirdos that can do nothing but win spelling bees. Which is exactly what I expect with my kids this year.
Many parents were forced to take on the additional role of teacher in the spring. And now, it’s looking like many will continue at least for some of the fall, part of the fall. All of the fall. Maybe the year.
Some of our friends, they moved from Dallas to NC. They have four kids. They have decided to homeschool.
It’s a decision many people of all income levels are facing. The clock has been ticking for a while.
Orange level Most Restrictive
* Face Coverings required
* Screening Protocols
* Limited gathering of students in groups
* Significant changes to arrival/dismissal/passing periods
* Hand Washing/Sanitizer upon entry and throughout the day
* Enhanced cleaning procedures
* Revised classroom arrangements
* Closure of common areas
* No visitors to campus
* Virtual format for group gatherings (open houses, assemblies, etc.)
* Grab and Go meal options/reduced numbers of students in cafeteria
* Reduced numbers of students/smaller groupings for larger student events (orientations,...)
* Specialized PPE and operational modifications for Special Education self-contained environments
Monday I was talking with a PE teacher. I made the comment - kids aren’t getting sick. None of them are dying or going to the hospital.
But what about the teachers?
Take one kid, who has interactions with 20 other people in a week. In a classroom of 20, that’s 400 chances of a teacher getting sick. It goes up exponentially.
It’s going to take one teacher, in one school district, getting sent to the hospital or dying and this whole thing gets shut down. Because the teachers are going to say - no way. They have families too. Someone who’s been teaching for 20 years is going to say - I’m out. Not worth the dirt for pay to risk my life.
Abeka is an accredited program.
Another reason is - travel. Sure, nothing is open. You can rent an AirBnb on the beach or in the mountains, and do school online. This is the year to travel, because every single week is the offseason.
Win.
Sarah
Financial freedom to me looks like being able to have college funds for all of my children, to be able to travel around the world. FInancial freedom to me looks like finally being able to have my own house. Fully paid off and exactly the beautiful simple dream house that I have always wanted. I would like to know that I am not living paycheck to paycheck. Especially with my health and just having emergency spinal surgery. I don't want to be super rich to where money rules everything that I do. I just want to be a little higher than just maintaining.
672 Why Simplicity Will Make You Rich (SIMPLE (WO)MAN)
Baby I’m a Simple.
ACTION: What things do you need to get rid of to simplify your life. Your finances. Your accounts. Your envelopes. Your relationships. One bank. One credit card. One investing strategy. One goal at a time.
Simplicity wins. Every time.
Example: Got rid of the Devil’s Duplex.
Got rid of the Jetta.
Combined budget accounts.
Merge your investing accounts.
Drop unused services.
Do core exercises that work.
The great Steve Jobs - always wore black sweaters. It’s why a wardrobe of nothing but black R+R shirts, simplifies the morning.
Here’s why simplicity works. When you have laser focus on one thing and learn to do it well. You end up doing that thing really well. Then, moving on to the next thing, you’ve mastered how to do something well. So you can apply all that knowledge.
Parents with two kids or more kids, know this. The first one, is all trial and error. The second one, now they know what works and what doesn’t. Third one, that’s a piece of cake. Raise that one with their eyes closed.
Investing. Learning that first 401(k). What does that thing even do? It’s a challenge. Next job. You got that thing figured out. You’re teaching the HR person how they work.
It’s the 401k, gold, penny stocks, friend’s cousins cupcake shop. Which sounds tempting to invest in. Because they promised free cupcakes.
Hmmm, mmmm. Where are all those craft breweries right now that were forced to shut down? It sounded like a good idea. Hmm, I can make beer in my kitchen. People like my beer. Let’s take out a $250,000 business loan, mortgage the house, and go start a beer garden.
That’s not simplicity. That’s complexity.
Like trying to manage 25 different investments. 132 budget categories. 15 projects or tasks at work. 6 different groups of friends. Real estate investing in  mobile homes, condos, commercial properties, new development old development, lunar bases on the moon.
Tennis, soccer, basketball, chess, conversational Klingon, the jazz flute. Not only does that cost more, someone never gets really good at anything. Too complex. Simplify.
Simplicity wins, every time.
Estimates suggest that a Toyota extended warranty will cost between $1,000 and $1,500 when purchased from the dealer. This price generally gets wrapped up in your financing, so you end up paying interest on it. With a third-party provider, the absence of interest will help to lower your cost. On top of that, the most significant benefit you have with third-party providers is the option to comparison shop. After all, Toyota isn’t going to offer you vehicle service agreements from other warranty administrators.
Don’t Get Hit in the Wallet
Unexpected repairs can cost thousands and they usually come when you aren’t prepared. That’s why a Toyota Extended Warranty is a great way to save you money when a surprise repair occurs. When it comes to deciding whether you should purchase extended coverage for your beloved Toyota truck, car, or SUV, you should consider the following costs:
* AC/Compressor Repairs: $2,000
* Transmission: $4,000
* Engine: $4,500
With dozens of computers in new Toyota models, the technology can be overwhelming. What about the cost of an ABS or AWD computer? These are expenses that you do not want to be caught off guard for, and with an Extended Warranty from Irwin Toyota you won't have to. Request more information for your Toyota Extended Warranty today.
Zero Deductible with 100% Labor and Parts Covered
All of our Toyota Extended Warranty plans have a ZERO deductible and cover 100% of all labor and parts costs for any covered repair.
Today Forward
Ten minutes ago is gone. It doesn’t matter what happened in the past. All we’ve got is now.
Trash Panda
671 83 Millionaires That Are Hair Bags (DEVIL IN DISGUISE)
Chipotle adding cali flour rice
Newsweek - Eating Foods like Bread and Pasta Linked to Lower Risk of Death
Well you look like angel
walk like an angel
talk like an angel
But I got wise
You’re the devil in disguise.
A group of 83 millionaires are pleading in an open letter to be taxed more in order to pay for the damage COVID-19 had caused to economies around the world.
Signatories to the letter, addressed to "our fellow global citizens," called themselves "Millionaires for Humanity."
The group, and include Disney heirs Abigail and Tim Disney, Ben & Jerry's co-founder Jerry Greenfield, and "Love, Actually" director Richard Curtis.
Most of the group signed the letter from the US. It also includes signatories from Germany, the UK, Canada, and New Zealand.
The signatories said that the extra governmental challenges of providing healthcare and education, and helping struggling businesses — all of which have been hit hard by the pandemic — cannot be solved through charity.
They do not drive ambulances, serve hospital wards, or stock grocery shelves amid the pandemic, the group admitted. "But we do have money," they wrote. "Lots of it."
The group said the responsibility lies with government to raise the funds needed to address the issues that they said will last for decades, they wrote.
"We can ensure we adequately fund our health systems, schools, and security through a permanent tax increase on the wealthiest people on the planet, people like us," they wrote, calling on governments to tax them "immediately. Substantially. Permanently."
They ended the letter saying: "So please. Tax us. Tax us. Tax us. It is the right choice. It is the only choice."
More recently, several of the letter's signatories already joined a similar effort in June, in an open letter asking US presidential candidates to support a moderate wealth tax.
It is never lost on you, celebrities, athletes, actors - never ever do you hear them saying they should be taxed more.
Ever wonder why?
The best answer, and only one that kinda makes sense - is these hair bags feel guilty having money.
I feel no guilt. You should love having money. To help a friend. Help a neighbor. Tip generously. Donate to the stuff you believe in. Instead of having your hard earned money taken from you, and given to things you don’t believe in.
What if the Turner administration levied a 10% mandatory hair bag tax, because I wanted to build tunnels under cities where we could get in tubes and shoot around like they have at the drive thrus at banks.
Oh wait. That Tesla guy doing that.
ACTION: Be proud of what you have done. You did that hard work. You deserve it. You earned it. You made wise choices. Don’t think about the choices other people make. Those are their choices. Hard work isn’t wrong, is it? Because if someone believes that, then they believe that being lazy is being right.
CREAM, SKIM MILK, LIQUID SUGAR (SUGAR, WATER), CORN SYRUP, WATER, SUGAR, COCOA (PROCESSED WITH ALKALI), COCONUT OIL, BUTTER (CREAM, SALT), EGG YOLKS, EGG WHITES, VANILLA EXTRACT, GUAR GUM, NATURAL FLAVORS, COCOA, PECTIN, CARRAGEENAN, SALT, SODIUM BICARBONATE, MILK, SOY LECITHIN
Hello, I work as a Private Investigator.
Our agency received a case with an objective of hacking into your email, phone, cloud storage, network and collecting intelligence.
We work with hackers from China for tasks like that, and they are the best. As you can see, they did a good job. Your accounts and devices are compromised.
But we do have an ethical protocol in place.
After checking the background of the person who paid for the hacking and investigation on you, I have decided to come forward and offer you to buy the information about that person (name, contacts, emails and other proof).
You will also get a report on yourself (including a list of compromised accounts, devices, logs, screenshots, photos and documents).
Normally, we do not disclose sensitive information about our clients, but in this case we will be.
Upon reviewing this case, I found that something illegal was planned against you.
The materials we have collected on you are very sensitive and can be easily used to blackmail you.
We usually address personal and corporate espionage cases, but this case is different.
We have received a prepayment of 50% for your case from that person (total agreed upon cost was 12500 USD).
However, I will give you a discount (without any profit for the agency), if you decide to buy this information.
After we get the payment, I will get back to you. You have 2 business days to make the transfer. It will cost you 40% of the unpaid balance.
We will process $2,500 payment through bitcoin. In case you have trouble with bitcoin, google how to fund it.
Send BTC to this wallet 1H7QWKGzZP1XcY7ruE16X4nYhdbqRzMJ52
It will be up to you what to do after you get the information. We will delete all files. The original client will get nothing and will never know about our deal.
Please keep in mind, because I need to pay Chinese contractors, and if you decline this offer, I will have to go to the original client and send all intel to cover the costs.
But at least you know that now and have a free heads up of what's coming.
I'll give you $2, and a picture of my cats for free (attached).
Since you already hacked me, you should know their names.
The local pied piper who correctly called the 2008 market crash and correctly called the 2020 pandemic. 12 hours before it was called a pandemic. That’s the new claim to fame.
correctly called the october 2015 recession which of course never happened.
And has probably correctly called 18 out of the last 3 recessions.
"So, the question then – and before I get to “So do we invest like crazy?” – meaning do we do what all these people are doing; do we invest right with them because it could go on for another year – our view is that it could go on until the elections. We don’t see any politician deciding to not continue to fund all this stuff before the elections. Who’s going to say we need to stop all the funding with the elections on the horizon? We just don’t know who that is. So, we think this might go on at least until the elections. So, we’re considering increasing our stock portfolio somewhat (a little bit, not a lot) so as to at least participate with crazy. So, that’s why the title of this video: Do We Invest Like Crazy?:”
Deet-deet-deet. Let me use my universal translator. We tried to guess what was going to happen. And we face planted on that guess. The market is up. And we missed out on all that money. so we think everyone is a bonehead, but the boneheads sure are making lots of money. And we’re getting yelled at by our clients because they are missing out on that money. So we’ll get back in, just sticking a toe in the water. Just in cases.
YtD market is down 3%. Big whoop. It does that in a day sometimes. Will it be down more in December. Probably if I were to bet. Do I care? No. I might care in like 30 or 40 years.
Name that song! On our newsletter.
Less Doing
Here’s an alternative that has been working for me: Not doing. Or at least, less-doing. There are a few ways I’ve been entering not-doing space that you may want to try. Consider relaxing pressure on:
Your time
Walk away from your calendar. Leave that space for, literally, nothing. Not a thing. It’s not your writing time or even focused work time. Don’t fill those moments with the busy work of email and to-do lists. Allow yourself time out of time. Allow yourself to dawdle. I went food shopping with one of my daughters and she asked to take a certain road home. “But it will take twice as long!” I protested. “Who cares?” She answered, “It’s a beautiful drive.” And, in every way, it was.
Your thinking
Let your mind wander. When you go for a run, don’t listen to a podcast or even music, just run. When you fold the laundry, just fold the laundry. I’m not suggesting “mindfulness,” focusing on each fold as you fold. The opposite, actually. Don’t be mindful — that’s just more control, more pressure, more demand. Instead, let your mind go wherever it goes and, maybe, notice where it goes.
Your relationships
If you need a break from seeing people, allow for that. I have lovely, caring friends who have offered runs and conversations and I tell them the truth: I love them but, right now, I want to go running by myself. They understand. And if you do want to be with people, try doing it with curiosity and vulnerability, without wasting effort performing. If you’re listening, don’t judge or solve or offer advice. Just trust that your presence is enough. And if you’re speaking, ask only for an ear. “I don’t want advice,” you can tell them, “I just want to share what’s going on for me.” You’ll be doing them a favor too because you’re releasing them from having to know anything or perform.
When you relax the demand on your time, your thinking, and your relationships, you’re slowing down, reducing the load, and leaving space for feelings to come up. Maybe tears, maybe laughter, maybe boredom or annoyance. Maybe you’ll feel the stress of not getting things done, or the fear of missing out as people around you produce and network and market. Maybe you’ll feel joy and that might be scary too.
Mastering your money is a never ending process. You don’t get into shape and then decide to never workout for the rest of your life.
670 Procrastination Can Kill You (CLOSE MY EYES FOREVER)
DIY Landscaping - big mistake. Maybe
ACTION: Don’t wait! You or a family member could be the one that gets scooped up by the great hawk in the sky!
What are you waiting on? It’s something. We all got something. What am I waiting on?
2nd half of the year money goals:
2nd verse, same as the first!
Goal #1: Track Cash Flow
There’s nothing like a crisis to highlight a critical aspect of financial planning: understanding how much money is coming into your household and the amount that you spend. I know it may sound simple, but if you don’t get this core concept right, it’s hard to make informed decisions about your financial life. To track your cash flow, download a free app like Mint or Clarity Money or use your bank’s app.
Goal #2: Put Your Money on Auto Pilot
With your trusted cash flow in hand, make your life easier by using technology to manage due dates on bills and to establish auto pay on available accounts. The idea is to synchronize payments for recurring bills when you receive income. If you are paying down debt, establish automatic payments, even for a small amount, so your most important expenses get paid and you can avoid , or at least minimize, penalties and fees. If you are saving on your own, you can automatically transfer money from your checking or savings account to a Roth or Traditional IRA.
Goal #3 Embrace the Unthinkable
Nobody wants to think about illness and death, but the pandemic has made those topics a top of mind reality. Overcome the anxieties associated with this emotional topic and take control. You need to create (or update) a will, a health care proxy, which allows you to appoint someone to make health care decisions on your behalf if you lose the ability to do so, and a durable power of attorney, which allows you to appoint someone to act as your financial agent in a variety of circumstances.
Goal #4 Stop Trying to Time the Market
I have a friend who is a psychologist. She likes to offer this advice to her clients: Before you open your mouth, think of the word “WAIT”. In her world, that stands for “Why Am I Talking?” I would like to alter that acronym for those of you who were tempted to take action over the first half of the year. If you feel that itch to do something with your investment or retirement accounts, ask yourself, “Why Am I Trading?” Stick to your game plan, which should keep you out of trouble.
PRESS RECORD. DEEP BREATH. BEGIN RANT.
Trump’s Consumer Watchdog Just Allowed Payday Lenders To Give Loans To People Who Can’t Afford Them
Payday loan interest rates can top 600%. Tuesday’s rule allows payday lenders to approve people without considering if they can afford to pay them back.
The CFPB rule undoes an Obama-era requirement that payday lenders must first assess whether someone taking out a loan can actually afford to repay it. Essentially, it would have put the same onus on payday lenders that banks have for giving out long-term loans like mortgages.
Democrats and consumer advocates have accused the Trump administration of gutting protections for the most vulnerable consumers in the midst of a pandemic-induced economic crisis.
That doesn’t matter Scott! I don’t take Payday loans! Ummm, the SEC just shot down some ruling which does impact you. Same deal, except it’s in regards to investing. Any investor you know, like you, is impacted. That has to do with the fruity duty standard, which got watered down to make it a watered down piece of fruit. Like lemonade without the lemons.
Fruity duty is ->
Turner is right winger!
Turner is a left winger!
Turner is the same as you are - a free thinker.
I vote policy, not party. Just like you, which party gives me the policies that line my pockets the most.
PRESS STOP. DEEP BREATH. END RANT
RED ALERT MOMENT -
A new job scam targets the unemployed during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Reports from the Better Business Bureau's (BBB) Scam Tracker show a trend in emails and texts offering fake jobs.
Red flags include asking for personal information, sending fake checks, and requesting the person pay for training.
Melanie McGovern from the BBB said to double check the email address sending the job offers.
"A lot of the email addresses are from free email services not the company directly," said McGovern. "So people will mimic big companies, like say an Amazon. Well they should have an Amazon email address. They shouldn't be using a Yahoo email or a Gmail address to correspond."
For people receiving questionable job offers, McGovern recommends to reach out to the company directly to see if the offer is real.
What is the most costly advice in the world? Bad advice.
Browsing online during lockdown, Jessica Friend spotted a pair of Ray-Ban sunglasses she liked, but the price tag made the 30-year-old Ohio resident think twice.
What persuaded her to click 'buy', Friend said, was the short-term credit offered by Afterpay (APT.AX), which split the $260 payment into four interest-free instalments.
Afterpay is among a handful of alternative credit firms which offer small loans, mostly to online shoppers, and make their money by charging merchants a 4%-6% commission.
These buy-now-pay-later (BNPL) firms have benefited from a shift to online shopping during the coronavirus crisis in countries including the United States, where state aid has also boosted retail sales.
"I'm more inclined to use them because they make it easier to afford to get the things I want all at once ... and when I want to splurge on something," Friend said of the loans.
Pilar
I don’t think it comes as a surprise that the public school system is seriously lacking when it comes to teaching kids about finances. There are a few classes about business in high school, but they are not a part of the core curriculum. Everything that I have learned about finances has been through my parents, both from watching them do it themselves and them telling me directly the best way to manage money.
My parents own apartments. By watching what they do, I have learned that sometimes it is better to invest money as a way of saving. Rather than putting your money in a savings account where it makes almost no money, it is better to invest money in stocks and other investments including real estate. My parents have taught me that it is good to make money by working hard at a job that is satisfying. It is okay to spend the money you earn from a job and also important to save money. By watching how my parents manage and spend their money, I’ve learned that properties hold a lot of value and provide a source of income different from your job. Over the years I’ve seen my parents buy apartment buildings, duplexes, and commercial buildings. Then, instead of using them for personal use, they rent them out to other people. This investment in property provides them with monthly payment from each property, overall increasing their personal worth. I know that one of my first things I will do after I am done with school is to invest in real estate.
I know how easy it is to spend money. We spend money on things we need to live, like groceries and gas, but there are so many things that we spend money on that are not necessary. My family works to keep a balance between the necessary things and the fun things. My parents did not pressure me to get a job while I was in high school. They encouraged me to study hard and enjoy my sports and extra activities like playing the cello. Now that I have graduated valedictorian and got into college, I have my first job as a CNA at an assisted living facility. I opened a bank account and I’m making money regularly. My parents showed me how I can spend some of my pay and save the rest. My parents showed me how to track my money and how to budget. They have shown me that it is important to only buy what you can afford; first the things you need, then the things you want. They have stressed how to use a credit card and pay it off every month to avoid building up debt.
Now that I am going into college, the subject of student loans has been on my mind. The cost of going to college is extremely high. Since I am going to a state school the tuition is quite a bit lower than a private college, however, room and board is very expensive. I am learning about student loans and interest rates and terms. I do, however, know of adults well into their forties and fifties that are still paying off their student loans. I realize the best way to lessen my need for student loans is to work this summer and apply for scholarships. Through these scholarships, I have been able to chip away at my college tuition little by little, which will eventually help me in the long run by assuming less debt. This scholarship would help me to defray some of the costs of attending college. I can assure you that this scholarship will not be wasted on me.
669 Why Some Investors Were Annihalated (HEAVENS ON FIRE)
Exhausted
Katie + the Cat
Salad recall
Covid boneheads
My fav burger place closed down this week because someone had Covid.
Wine shipment
I used to care about what people thought. He drinks wine! Then the Rock started selling Tequila. Metallica sells Whiskey. Carrie Underwood was singing from home during Covid with a glass of wine.
Fitbit knockoff - LETSCOM, 23,000 steps yesterday.
Cat exercise
What’s a grace period for insurance?
Vacation travel insurance
Song
From a 2,997-point rout in the Dow to two 9% single-day rallies in the S&P 500, the 2020 stock market has served up a raft of tantalizing sessions for would-be market timers. Hours came and went in which whole years could be made or lost.
But for all the dizzying turbulence, it’s worth noting that the S&P 500 is nearly flat for anyone who sat tight and held through the chaos. Mistakes stand out in an environment like that -- the back-breaking costs of even a few wrong moves in a market as turbulent as this one. Maybe volatility is the time for active managers to shine, but the downside of getting it wrong has rarely been greater.
One stark statistic highlighting the risk focuses on the penalty an investor incurs by sitting out the biggest single-day gains. Without the best five, for instance, a tepid 2020 becomes a horrendous one: a loss of 30%.
Sell high and buy low. It’s investing 101. But an ill-timed decision to do either can open the door to career-threatening pain. Getting out at the top may seem like the way to maximize returns. But over the past century, the S&P 500 had suffered 13 bear markets before this year, with all of them seeing losses fully recovered and the index eventually exceeding its prior peak by an average 68%.
“You can’t buy it one day and sell it the next and think you can outfox the market. You can’t do that,” said Gary Bradshaw, a portfolio manager at Hodges Capital Management in Dallas. “The way you make money in the market is you buy good companies and you hold on.”
Cho Byung-jae got burned in this new trading world. A 22-year-old South Korean living in a city south of Seoul, he bought crude futures at 30 cents a barrel back in April. He then watched in horror as prices kept falling. Just after 3 a.m. local time, oil fell below $0 for the first time ever—meaning he would have to pay to get rid of his holdings.
All the while, Mr. Cho’s trading platform still showed positive prices. As he tried to sell, the platform froze. When the dust cleared, he faced losses up to $56,000.
“The prices…were going haywire,” Mr. Cho said. “There was something very wrong.”
“I never thought oil prices could turn negative,” said Zhang Ye, a mechanical engineer who was informed the following morning in local time that he had lost his roughly $28,150 investment through the product and owed the bank another $44,925.
Self-styled investing experts have popped up on YouTube and Instagram. Topics range from explaining the financial statements of index heavyweight Samsung Electronics Co. to breaking down “Bollinger bands” and other technical-analysis tools for a novice audience.
Park Jung-hyun, who goes by the screen name “Ho-du,” has built a following of more than 163,000 people on YouTube after filming himself trading U.S. oil futures, with one subscriber calling him “the president of foreign futures.” The 40-year-old influencer is sponsored by an online securities firm, and by a restaurant chain specializing in fried chicken, a hugely popular dish in South Korea.
On a typical live video, Mr. Park wears sunglasses and speaks into a webcam while trading natural-gas and oil futures. He attacks viewers who leave mean comments.
As the coronavirus pandemic was triggering big losses on the Kospi Composite in March, 31-year-old Choi Won-ki created his first investment account.
Using his smartphone, Mr. Choi said he quickly opened a trading account with NH Investment & Securities Co., a firm that has partnered with Kakao Corp., operator of a ubiquitous messaging app.
“It’s a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, and I didn’t want to miss it,” Mr. Choi said recently.
This is the latest in a series of investment frenzies, after South Korea embraced cryptocurrency trading and complex structured products. As in nearby China and Taiwan, the South Korean stock market is also one where individual investors are major players even in steadier times.
Kim Min-woo began trading oil after watching Mr. Park’s videos. He said he bought West Texas Intermediate crude-oil futures in March, initially making 170 million won (about $142,000), before losing it all as oil crashed.
“I took a day off from work because I was devastated,” he said. “I was thankful that I have a job, even though I get paid less than $2,000 a month.”
In a video on YouTube posted June 29, Mr. Park lost $11,830 shorting 13 natural-gas futures contracts. Mr. Park says he is down about 160 million won for the year.
$133,000
Younger people in South Korea have opened hundreds of thousands of trading accounts, hoping they will profit from turbulent markets to improve their otherwise lackluster economic prospects.
The novices are part of a global wave of individual traders, who have been lured into markets by prodigious volatility and with the encouragement of influential social-media users.
The new converts have helped cement South Korea’s status as a major center for small investors, with roughly twice as many trading accounts per capita as the U.S.
The local pied piper who correctly called the 2008 market crash and correctly called the 2020 pandemic. 12 hours before it was called a pandemic. That’s the new claim to fame.
correctly called the october 2015 recession which of course never happened.
And has probably correctly called 18 out of the last 3 recessions.
"So, the question then – and before I get to “So do we invest like crazy?” – meaning do we do what all these people are doing; do we invest right with them because it could go on for another year – our view is that it could go on until the elections. We don’t see any politician deciding to not continue to fund all this stuff before the elections. Who’s going to say we need to stop all the funding with the elections on the horizon? We just don’t know who that is. So, we think this might go on at least until the elections. So, we’re considering increasing our stock portfolio somewhat (a little bit, not a lot) so as to at least participate with crazy. So, that’s why the title of this video: Do We Invest Like Crazy?:”
Deet-deet-deet. Let me use my universal translator. We tried to guess what was going to happen. And we face planted on that guess. The market is up. And we missed out on all that money. so we think everyone is a bonehead, but the boneheads sure are making lots of money. And we’re getting yelled at by our clients because they are missing out on that money. So we’ll get back in, just sticking a toe in the water. Just in cases.
YtD market is down 3%. Big whoop. It does that in a day sometimes. Will it be down more in December. Probably if I were to bet. Do I care? No. I might care in like 30 or 40 years.
Name that song! On our newsletter.
Let’s celebrate Mr./Ms. last place hero.
11:53 pm on July 1st,
While growing up my family was always reminding me about the importance of saving money and spending it wisely. Now being older I know that money is very important. What you choose to do with your money can make major impacts on your life. It comes into play with everything that you do such as buying a car, buying a house, and your credit score. Whenever I had a little job around the neighborhood dog sitting, watering plants or babysitting I would always save my money. Even if it was five dollars I knew that if I saved all of my money then I would be able to use it for better things in the future. Now going off to college I can see how much everything really costs in the world.
My parents had a savings account set up for me when I was little and they have been putting money in it to help me with my college expenses. They made me realize that saving a little each month can make a big impact if you continue to do it over the years. I can see how much expenses can build up and it is nice to have a saving account. I have also put the money that I have earned over the years in my savings. I know that if I would have spent this money that it could be even harder to pay for college. I have also learned that it is very important not to spend money that you do not have.
My family has always had the attitude of not always buying the newest products that come out right away.  This is why saving money up over the years is so important. I may not like it in the moment but I know that it is better than going into debt. When you put thought into what you want to buy and save up your money it has more meaning than just going out and buying it right when you want it. You should make thoughtful decisions on how much of your money should be saved and what is for spending.
By practicing this if you want to get something or do something that is expensive then you are able to do that and not feel like you are having all of your money being taken away from you. In high school we were required to take a personal finance class and as a result I learned a lot more about finance. I think that it was important to have this class because it helped students who did not have a lot of knowledge about finance think about their future. My teacher was able to tell us about his life and some real situations that he has gone through with his finances. Another important topic that we learned in the class was about student loans. I could get overwhelmed with all of the student debt that I may run into but I know that if I make good choices now regarding what I am spending my money on then it will not be as much of a burden in the long run.
When I think of money the ABBA song Money, Money, Money comes to mind. The juxtaposition of money and being a rich man went together like me and my mom enforcing the importance of applying to scholarships for college. Growing up in a single parent home money became a recurring theme. I was taught the proper way to budget when buying groceries, avoiding student loans, and the consequences of frivolous spending.
Budgeting is essential when you have six mouths to feed! On Saturday morning I would rise early with my mom to do our weekly shopping. She would have her list of items and coupons ready to go. Now on a normal Saturday we would visit at most 3 stores. Each of these stores offered a sale item that she was to purchase for the week, saving her anywhere between $50-$70 dollars. My mom would always be so satisfied and happy with our trunk full of her budget spent grocery items. She would emphasize the importance of reading the sale paper for the week to decide where the best deals would be. From here she would calculate the amount of money she would end up spending at each store. At times we would deviate from her planned budget with a morning snack, but for the most part she stuck with her set budget for the week.
Student loans are the whale in the room that you want to avoid at all cost. As a recent high school graduate applying for scholarships has been my new feat. I continue to apply for scholarships to have enough money to pay for school. The cost of school adds up beyond tuition as you look at room and board, food, books, transportation, and various other fees that come with being a college student. With the guidance and encouragement of my mom, I am avoiding student loans at all costs. I do not want this cost hanging over my head as soon as I graduate with my bachelors. Instead I want to  maximize my time in my undergraduate years to focus on studying,  internship opportunities, volunteer work, and to completely eliminate any loans.
When it comes to spending I am a very frugal individual. I buy what I need not what I want. Spending money on yourself is not bad, but when it is done in excess that’s when the problems occur. I was taught to spend money on things that you need, and if you have more than a little left, spend it on one thing you want. In my generation I feel as if we are always ready to spend, yet we are always struggling to keep money in our bank account. I do not want to be an individual with little to no money in my account. I want to have money ready for when I need it rather than when I want it.
As a Gen Z, money surrounds us from the music we listen to, the clothes we wear, all the way to the cars we drive. It became apparent in high school that money can climb you to the top of the social ladder. Money really controls people and that’s one of the things I first noticed about money. For me I understand the importance of having money to move forward in your career and even purchasing your first home, but I do not want money to control me like I’ve seen. Instead I am interested in becoming an attorney and business owner. I am interested in being a criminal defense attorney to fight for justice for those who are wrongly accused or who are excessively punished. I have seen what the prison system can do to families and what being wrongly accused of a crime can do to a person. I want to bring a positive change to fight for a criminal justice system that is fair to all despite their race or socioeconomic background. It is my goal to pay it forward by giving back when I am financially able. To help the next student who is not motivated by money but by their passion and drive to further their education to reach a career goal like myself.
667 Making Smart Buying Decisions (CAN'T BUY ME LOVE)
Is depositing the same as investing?
Remote Woman
Raf - walk away power
Include a good story!
ATTENTION
Even the smartest person in the world, even me moneyacs, can fall for one of the trickiest con artists in the world - our own brains.
PROBLEM/INTEREST
The Fever!
Have you ever seen something that you just couldn’t live without? Sometimes you didn’t even know you needed that, but there it is. Like the iPod. Who knew we needed 1,000 songs in our pocket, until we learned we could have a 1,000 songs in our pocket. Now we have millions with Spotify, right?
How have we ever lived without bottled water? Ripoff.
Chocolate fudge dipped Oreos? Delicous
Yoga pants that have a pocket in the side for your phone? I don’t where those but all shorts I’ve owned in the past 10 years have a side pocket.
You wouldn’t be alone in buying something in the past 6 months, you probably don’t need.
The fever!
The fever!
It was land fever. Like the CA goldfish of 1849! There gold in them there hills!
The fever, is all too real. i ready something interesting the other day. 90%+ of our purchases are made by pure emotion.
Someone can have all the facts, logic, stats, irrefutable evidence in the world, and it gets tossed out the window.
STORY OF FRIDGE.
What can you do?
New segment: Should I buy it?
Not can I afford it. Should I buy it.
Ask me moneyacs.
We got rid of one investment property. A rental. And are looking for some land to invest in. For the future.
The good news is, there is help.
I’m starting a new segment on the show. Should I buy it? Suze used to do can I afford it. That’s different.
As the most brilliant listeners on the planet, I know you can afford a lot of things, or a lot more, than people who aren’t listening to the show. Not because they aren’t smart. They aren’t aware of the fever!
So you can afford it, it might not make sense though. Which is why you’ve got me. You’re doing this already - can we afford this house. What about this plan for our finances. What do you think about this next step.
And I can help you with the other stuff too.
Vacations? Don’t go to Costa Rica.
Remodel the kitchen? Yes please. Get your shelves at Ikea.
Should I buy my special lady some diamond jewelry if I’m debt free? Yes. You should.
And I say that not just because it makes me popular with the ladies. I say that because what else are you going to buy instead?
When you ask someone else for advice, they don’t have the fever. They make better choices. They have wisdom. They help you focus.
You end up happier. Because we don’t trick ourselves into flawed thinking.
It’s never been easier to make wise spending choices. This is where you can come for all of your spending decisions. One of the many free services we provide around here to accelerate you at warp speed on your journey to financial freedom, and beyond!
Raf.
GOLD is a terrible investment. 45 year annualized return is less than 1 percent
Replies:
hey.itz.nate
@the_intelligent.investor firstly, you’re going off of 45 years, secondly, they’re incredible if you play them right you could make insane gains
Graduating in ‘21
Top 10/worst states
based on crime rates, cost of living, life expectancy, property prices, and population age.
https://401kspecialistmag.com/10-best-and-worst-states-to-retire-in-2020/?utm_source=401k&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=401k_enl_06272020_WEEKEND
Elisabella
The reason why I want to start growing my finances is to avoid college debt. For my 19th birthday, my mom gave me $200 to make my first investment on buying stocks. I currently have the Robinhood and Acorns app on my phone. In total I have gained around $50 because I started investing when the corona virus started and now that the situation is starting to get better and places are opening up, stocks have increased in value.
Not having to worry about finances as much would allow me to afford the lifestyle I dream of. For me that would mean, being able to pay all my studies loan free and having opportunities to study abroad to enhance my skills. My mom has a $60,000 debt which sounds really scary. I would like to avoid that and make smart financial decisions.
What other advice do you have for me?
668 What Should You Do With An Old 401(k) (OLD TOWN ROAD)
RIP
rollovers
?
A recent survey from
T. Rowe Price
found that the overwhelming majority of 401k participants expressed interest in keeping their savings in their employer plan upon retirement.
Of the 83% who said yes to staying in the plan, 30% said they currently have plans to keep their savings with their employer, and 53% said they would consider keeping their saving in their employer plan if it offered solutions to help generate income.
The survey, which focused on financial attitudes and behaviors, found that the preference to keep assets in plan is true across all generations, the
strongest with millennials
at 88%, followed by Generation X (83%), and baby boomers (77%).
Meanwhile, 61% of participants say their employers have not communicated the advantages of leaving the money in the plan and many are confused or unaware of their options:
Eight in 10 participants have a goal to manage a plan that converts their assets into an income stream in retirement, but when asked what type of retirement income products they would use to do so, they are unsure.
One in four participants were not sure if they should invest in a managed payout, an immediate annuity, deferred annuity, or if they should manage their money on their own.
>>
Admin fees:
It’s like moving out of an apartment and you keep paying rent even though you don’t live there anymore.
Pablo
I recently increase my contribution to my 457 from $50 to $500, the goal is to max that out by next year. I believe the annual max contribution to a 457 is $19,500 a year? I'm also looking into a Roth or IRA, whats the difference? And is opening either or a good idea?
Don't have much debt, about $158,000.00 mortgage and $9,000 student loan that's going to be paid off by the end of the year. My wife just started working (RN) and I keep bugging her to ask about her 401K or retirement plan, I think I'm getting on her nerves. I'm starting a little late in the game, I'm 41 so I feel like I need to catch up.
I'm subscribed to the Best Money Academy, AMAZING!!! I'm making my 3 teenage daughters go through the program, and it's awesome to able to talk about finances, savings, the dangers of debt on all the great material offered in the courses.
Thanks for everything you guys do!!
andreateking
Since all fed student loan payments have been put on hold until the end of Sept how should I make the most of this time? I have still been putting aside the required payment amount in order to make a big payment in the future.
harlemvibenyc
What direction do you see the housing market moving in within the next two years?
papergirl22
I want to retire in 10 years yet during this pandemic I want to buy a house for my middle-school age children to have a home. Should I buy a house with a 30 year mortgage if I want to retire in 10 years?
marco875875
Is it the BEST TIME to invest in the stock market , the way the economy is right now? or wait until the beginning of next year ?
lindamaffeo
Where do you put money from a sale of a house? Invest? But another property?
vgarrett226
Can you talk about your opinion on getting into real estate investing (whether is flipping or renting and holding) vs using the stock market for retirement funds?
sluglifecrew
Do you recommend Acorns? 💙
666 Thriving During The Chaos (NUMBER OF THE BEAST)
A qualified individual is now someone who:
1) Is diagnosed, or whose spouse or dependent is diagnosed, with the virus SARS-CoV-2 or the coronavirus disease 2019 (collectively, “COVID-19”) by a test approved by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (including a test authorized under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act); or
2) Experiences adverse financial consequences as a result of the individual, the individual’s spouse, or a member of the individual’s household (that is, someone who shares the individual’s principal residence):
* being quarantined, being furloughed or laid off, or having work hours reduced due to COVID-19;
* being unable to work due to lack of childcare due to COVID-19;
* closing or reducing hours of a business that they own or operate due to COVID-19;
* having pay or self-employment income reduced due to COVID-19; or
* having a job offer rescinded or start date for a job delayed due to COVID-19.
10% of city dwellers were moving out. They are going to places like Hilton Head South Carolina, where the weather is nice, taxes are low, life is slower paced, and the people hailing from the isle of Idiots of the coast of Dumbas, haven’t made their way there yet.
Welcome home to this 4 bed, 2.1 bath traditional in Aledo ISD. Warm neutral colors throughout. Updates include paint, carpet & hardwood flooring. Recent kitchen remodel boasts freshly painted cabinets, granite countertops & new backsplash. Kitchen overlooks dining area & main living room which features a stone wood burning fireplace. Secondary living space is currently being used as a play area but could easily be an office or formal dining room. All bedrooms up. Master bath has dual sinks, garden tub & separate shower. Covered patio leads to backyard space with plenty of room for family fun. Side entry garage with over-sized driveway, affording extra parking space.
$269k, $1,500 / month
Schools are rated 8/10.
Not a house, that’s a home. Town is 5,000 people, 15 minutes outside the city.
I’ve moved a lot. I’ve lived in Georgia 10 years, Texas, 10 years. Taxachusettes is where I grew up. On the playground is where I spent most of my days.
Move! Move for a year. Rent somewhere new for a year. Get out and explore the space.
Option trading.
665 The Biggest Emergency Fund Mistake People Make
The Economy Is in Disarray. But Borrowers Aren’t Getting Home-Equity Lines.
New home-equity lines of credit declined after pandemic hit as lenders tightened standards
Cash is king, cash is queen, cash is the king and queen.
PROBLEM
Is a credit card an emergency fund? You betcha it is. It’s the lifeline for half the population. Should it be? No way. The reality is, it is.
It’s the lifeline for the last minute airplane ticket to the sick family member.
It’s the lifeline for the $4,000 vet bill for the sick dog.
It’s the lifeline for the food people needed to eat during Covid, when the imperial federal government couldn’t get stimulus money out fast enough.
It’s a lifeline. Given the choice between drowning, and grabbing hold of a gooey, slimy, dead snake, to keep myself alive. I’m grabbing that dead snake. You would too. We all have, we all would.
Next time though - I want you prepared. More prepared than this time. I keep a year’s worth of cash around. If it get’s low, I’ll sell some investments to beef it back up. Why? Less stress.
That’s all this is about - less stress.
Cash is less stress.
6,9,12 months of cash - less stress.
The paycheck disappears, the economy shuts down, the stock market tanks.
6,9.12 months of cash - less stress.
NOT A SOLUTION:
Income
HELOC
Credit Cards
Sell investments. You mean when the market is down?
It’s like choosing to not have a life preserver on a cruise ship. Well, first we’ll step out on to the ice berg, and wait there for the next ship. If we can’t do that, we’ll make our way to the helicopter pad. Oops, the helicopter just left. So then we’ll get on the life rafts, but they are all full. Hmmm. we can try treading water for 3 days and hope we don’t get eaten ice sharks.
Roberts
Having financial freedom would give me the boost that I need to keep growing. There are so many opportunities right now because of the COVID-19 pandemic, that would be an amazing opportunity if I had all of the funds necessary to make the most out of them. Having my finances grow would help me finish school, invest money into stocks and accounts that will give me steady growth, as well as give me the financial security and peace of mind that comes with it.
I am very motivated to keep learning about the financial world, which is why I watched your video and took notes on it!
That’s largely because most hedge funds assess performance fees when they make money, but don’t charge negative fees or give back past fees when they lose money. When returns vanish, the expenses don’t.
Travel tip: Book next summer’s trip.
That Big Vacation You Scrapped Is Already Selling Out for Next Summer
Invention - Dinosaur cookie shooter
Orman said in a recent
New York Times
article about her being back in the limelight that she hopes to live in a world where taxes on the wealthy “skyrocket,” and that she sees a “trail of devastation” left by President Trump where many people won’t recover.
Pretty much all of the high-profile financial gurus out there—
Dave Ramsey
, Jim Cramer and a handful of others including Orman—are controversy lightning rods for their advice and are often maligned by in-the-trenches financial advisors.
Indeed, many 401k advisors spend all too much time dispelling some of the mainstream media financial advice in meetings with clients. But the “Traditional 401k vs. Roth 401k” question is a legitimate one, and one advisors are increasingly likely to deal with in those meetings. It’s worth recognizing that many participants are hearing from the likes of
Ramsey
and Orman that the Roth 401k is the one they recommend, as have many top
401k advisors
in the proper circumstances.
664 Invest Like A Celebrity Chef (CHERRY PIE)
Outside the box real estate - building 3 duplexes on extra land.
Country life - pig under the porch
Insta stories - armadillo. Baby bambi. Spiders. Vultures. Bees of course.
ZZ Top - history of Texas.
A: What would be in Gordan Ramsey’s pantry? Or Rachel Ray? Or Emeril? Or any Paul Hollywood from the Great Brittish Bake Off.
Any celebrity chef. Any chef that owns a decent restaurant. How about Aaron Franklin of Franklin’s BBQ.
What’s in there? Here’s an easier question - what wouldn’t you find?
Hydrox genereic Oreos.
Chunky Soup, no chunky soup, right?
Bisquick, right? No box of pancake mix.
Because they are professional chefs. The best of the best. They know how to cook, they enjoy cooking, they know in the kitchen they will get better flavor, better results, better response from those they serve the food to, cooking from scratch.
SURVEY.
ACTION: focus on what the vast majority of professionals do. Not just the one talking head yelling at the camera or on YouTube about what you should buy.
If you follow their advice, you’ll be cooking up some cat food in your lifetime trying to survive.
Emma, - PSLF
Sometimes people can’t believe, that doctors, lawyers, accountants-  live the same paycheck to paycheck lifestyle that they do. Really? They are broke too? It’s so true. The listener with -$20,000 in net worth, has more money than the 40 year old doctor with $-200,000 in net worth.
But the doctor- they make more! They have more toys! nice clothes, nicer vacations.
What they have that we don’t see - is an incredible burden. An invisible weight that keeps them awake every free second they aren’t distracted.
The stock market has clawed back much of its losses from the new coronavirus pandemic. Ophthalmologist Craig Sklar is selling his stocks anyway.
When the pandemic hit, the value of Dr. Sklar’s investments tumbled. So did the income he earned from his private practice in Connecticut, which was forced to furlough staff and dip into emergency loans to try to keep its doors open.
At 62 years old, Dr. Sklar, who had been hoping to retire in a few years, decided he couldn’t risk seeing his portfolio take a bigger hit. He sold much of his stockholdings at a loss between January and early March.
“I don’t have 10 to 15 years left to recover my losses,” said Dr. Sklar, who still owns some stocks but now has more cash as a percentage of his portfolio than he has in decades. “At some point, I’ll need my cash to live on.”
>>At 62, this doctor is worried he won’t be able to afford his lifestyle.
Individuals like Dr. Sklar now face perhaps one of the most difficult investing decisions they will make in their lifetimes: whether to wait out a potentially long rebound or exit the market altogether.
Data from Fidelity Investments suggests millions of individuals have decided to do the latter. Nearly a third of investors ages 65 and up sold all of their stockholdings some time between February and May, compared with 18% of investors across all age groups.
And Mr. Eberlin has been able to hold up, in part because of his savings and because of his wife’s job as a schoolteacher.
But Mr. Eberlin still feels a sting of regret, especially having sat out the nearly 11-year bull market that began in 2009 and missed out on much of the stock market’s resurgence the past few months. With the future of his job up in the air, he isn’t looking to make any drastic changes to his portfolio soon.
“I wish I had a crystal ball,” he said.
>>Do you know who has a crystal ball? Me! That’s who.
Questions
Keith,
I wanted to know what investing platforms you recommend? (E-Trade, Robin Hood, etc.) I recently opened a small account using the M-1 Finance app. I did this mostly because it was free and thought it would be a decent place for me to start and learn a little.
I've invested in a few mutual funds right now and I'm mostly interested for saving for retirement but I wouldn't mind having another account/portfolio just for playing around in the stock market to "try" and make some money buying selling stocks from time to time. Any other starting investing advice would be great.
Matt, Georgia
Do you know much about the IRRL program?
If you have an existing VA-backed home loan and you want to reduce your monthly mortgage payments—or make your payments more stable—an interest rate reduction refinance loan (IRRRL) may be right for you. Refinancing lets you replace your current loan with a new one under different terms.
Why might I want to get an IRRRL?
Often called a “streamline” refinance, an IRRRL may help you to:
* Lower your monthly mortgage payment by getting you a lower interest rate, or
* Make your monthly payments more stable by moving from a loan with an adjustable or variable interest rate (an interest rate that changes over time) to one that’s fixed (the same interest rate over the life of the loan)
Before you decide to refinance, divide your closing costs by how much you expect to save every month by refinancing to see if it’s worth it.
Dany,
CARES ACT -
What would you do if you not need the money but do not want to miss this opportunity? Is there a way to grabbing this 100k and adding to any retirement account? roth, ira? i would be able to pay it back within 3 years. would love to add to my retirement this way if possible.
IRA - can only do up to the yearly limits. So why borrow when you can fill them up with regular income.
663 Ways To Lose Cash Quickly (LOSER)
New boat
Selling honey to support our volunteer fire department
Scholarship
The first thing Christopher Terry wants you to know is that he’s a working-class guy from the Bronx.
The second?
Baby-faced Terry, with his slicked-back hair and slight paunch, wants you to know that he’s a top-notch trader in “everything under the sun,” from equities to options to foreign exchange.
“If you’re a forex trader, act like it,” he says, extending his arm in a classic New York City boroughs gesture.
Andre, San Diego
A lot of my friends and people I know are involved in Forex trading, including organizations called “Kai Academy.” I’ve had them tell me about it, and it costs money to join or you have to refer friends (like an MLM). It honestly seems like a scam to me, but I’m curious if you know anything about it. The way they post about it obsessively also leads me to think the company forces them to.
“It’s fresh, it’s something new,” Dooly says to Terry as the two chat in the latter’s Las Vegas condo. Multiple computer screens flash before them, including one from iMarketsLive screaming “Design your own lifestyle” and another with squiggly lines that appears to be a trading chart.
iMarketsLive is definitely different. The MLM world is full of people hawking everything from anti-aging potions and scented candles to diet shakes and leggings in a business structure that is often alleged to be a pyramid scheme. That’s because, according to critics, the only way to make money in most of these businesses is not to sell their pricey products to the public but to convince others to join in and do the same thing — in other words, by recruitment.
Critics say that appears to be what iMarketsLive does too.
Moreover, forex trading is often highly leveraged and, partly as a result, risky. It also has a low cost of entry, which is why Terry says he chose that market for his venture. “Forex gives the individuals who don’t have a lot of money a low barrier to enter,” says Terry. “You could start a forex account for 50 bucks, where on these other markets it’s a thousand, two thousand, five thousand. But forex allows people to come in at a very, very low price.”
But Truth in Advertising executive director Bonnie Patten points out, “The underlying product is an incredibly risky endeavor in which most unsophisticated consumers have a higher risk of losing greater amounts of money because of the leverage.”
Ryan Mei |梅枭雄| @DollarSenseLA
💪🏼 Paid off $165k of debt
💻 Data @facebook
✍️ Writer @creditkarma
🎓 @dartmouthcollege
THIS IS WHAT IML ACTUALLY IS
IML is a modern day pyramid scheme that gets your attention through FOMO (fear of missing out). They do so through the following two simple, effective steps.
1. Social media posts that exploit your FOMO
2. Bait and switch
Step 1: Social media is their customer acquisition strategy. You typically see three types of posts: money flash, inspirational speeches, and why IML is not a scam.
1. Money Flash: Most of the posts you see are how IML traders are getting rich through trading. You may see a screenshot of their profit from that day, or you may see a nice car, a nice pool, or a nice apartment in the background. At this point, you are not thinking about how awesome these people are, instead you are thinking about how awesome it would be if you were in their shoes. Now, they’ve GOT you.
2. Inspirational Speech: The second type of posts is about some kind of life lesson or a generic inspirational speech. A few typical ones are on ‘work hard, be grateful’, ‘showing respect’, or “being a great leader”. None of them have any direct correlation to making money through trading. But they help build a persona of social good.
3. Why IML is not a scam: A lot of posts are about defending why IML is not a scam. Why do they do that? Because it sure feels like one. I don’t know if “scam” is the right word to accurately describe IML, but it is no doubt a pyramid scheme. The most common response strategy is to divert the question from “ IML is not a scam'“ to “foreign exchange is not a scam”. The latter is absolutely true, but the former is not. I have a section below to explain it in detail.
Step 2: Once you have reached out to an IML person and signed up, they do a bait and switch. Before you signed up, you may have had the idea that you can make money through trading in your pajamas. After you signed up, you learn that being an independent business owner (IBO) is the true way to make money here.
How does it work exactly? You make money through recruiting more people, typically from showing how rich you have become by posting on social media. But first, you have to sign up as an IBO yourself. As of April 2019, it costs $16.71 a month. If you are interested in seeing how much money you can make through recruitment, here’s an old compensation structure to give you an idea.
By the way, did you know, before anyone signs up, you have to enter who referred you? It is not a coincidence. No one who joins IML joins organically. Think about your other experiences in life. If you want to open a checking account, they don’t ask you who referred you. Why do you have to do it here at IML? Because it is a pyramid scheme, the person who referred you is making money off of you.
In the U.S., the forex-trading MLM company also has come in for its share of complaints to the Federal Trade Commission, according to consumer advocacy nonprofit Truth in Advertising, which recently posted several of them on its website. “[I] wanted to learn to trade but all guys on top wanted was marketing. [I] realised its an pyramid scheme . . . alot of people contacted me on instagram and said same thing,” reads one complaint. Adds another: “I decided to unsubscribed and block them from my bank which apparently had the company in the list of scams.”
Terry claims the company is far from being a pyramid scheme. “I don’t have a pyramiding structure. It’s like a matrix. We’re all working together synergistically,” he says in the YouTube video — a popular promotional tool of the MLM movement.
The SEC has been abundantly clear when it comes to the sales of unregistered securities and the FTC has vigorously pursued companies that make income claims without proper disclosure statements.
Eddie
My daughter is 12 yrs old. A financial advisor recommend I do a UTMA for her, because I will be able to contribute until she is 21, and transfers it to her at that age. Just curious about your thoughts?
If it's designed correctly and with the right company the IUL or private placement life insurance beats everything else. Tony Robbins in his book "Money manage the Game" calls it the rich man's Roth.
Chris
The fees in our 529 seem high so we are actually losing money. Is that normal when you first open one?, they 529 plan is with Edward Jones.
WSJ:
The average upfront fee for class A 529 plans sold by brokers is as much as 5.75%. For those accounts, the average annual fee is about 1% of the account balance. For Class C plans sold by brokers, which tend to have no or a lower upfront fee, the average annual management fee is 1.63%, he said.
There is a big difference in what the classes mean for fees. Consider a parent opening an account with $20,000. The broker selling A shares stands to make around $1,150 off the top. If $100 goes into the account each month for 18 years, the account earns 7% annually and the annual broker fee is 1%, the parent pays about $15,000 in fees before tapping the plan for college. With class C shares, that parent pays about $24,000 in annual fees over 18 years.
Brokers are paid by distributors. For example, American Funds Distributors Inc., one of the biggest makers of 529 plans, pays Edward Jones $3.50 for every $10,000 of assets.
Consumers can bypass big fees if they buy a 529 directly from a state. That way they don’t pay a sales commission and the average annual fee is 0.44%, Mr. Curley said. Buying directly from a state would on average cost the $20,000 client about $7,000 over 18 years.
Edward Scisorhands, one the DumbVestor programs out there, that’s your freaking money! thousands and thousands and thousands of dollars going to pay for their kids college education, and not yours!
Got kids? Know someone with kids? Ask them about college saving. Get this conversation going. You have the power. You know about fees. You can tell them about this little segment here. You plant the seeds, I’ll take care of the watering, I’ll show them how to grow their money in the best way possible, with the lowest fees, the easiest of understanding, so those kids of hardworking americans, can go spend that money on wild spring break trips instead of student loans.
Carrie, Florida
What are your thoughts on updating a home? I live in a moderate home. Nothing more than we need. But want to update and struggle with using funds to do so. What step would you update a home? (Not a total remodel but flooring, kitchen)
Jade,
If your mortgage has a prepayment penalty, is it still worth paying off early? Our mortgage is our only deb
Abe, North Carolina
Would you pay off a car or cc debt first? Both are about the same. We have the money to pay off one right now. The car payment is more expensive a month compared to the payment for the cc. I know your steps day pay off the smallest first, but we have the money to pay of either or.
Farnoosh’s Home Buying Checklist
Job security (Super important to lenders right now, as unemployment soars.)
Strong credit. (Some lenders are increasing credit score requirements in this market.)
A 20% down payment plus another 3 to 4% of the sale price for closing costs.
Reserves for home maintenance and improvements.
Mortgage, taxes, and insurance do not exceed 30% of take-home pay.
The home will make me happy, not just my parents.
I want to settle down in one place - and OK to pay property taxes.
I
understand that a home is not an “investment” vehicle.
Six months of expenses saved in a rainy day account post-closing.
A home is often the biggest purchase of anyone's life, so naturally, the list is long.
Feel free to copy/paste, pass along and share.
* In the past century, there have been a total of 15 recessions in the US. In 11 of those periods, stock returns were positive two years after the start of the recession.
* The average duration of a bear market is less than one-fifth the average bull market.
* In August 1979, the cover of Business Week was titled The Death of Equities.
Do you have life insurance?
U.S. insurers are doing the once unthinkable, turning away business from some Americans who want a life-insurance policy.
The driving force behind the action: a collapse in interest rates tied to the spread of the new coronavirus and an expectation from insurers that rates won’t rebound significantly anytime soon.
Dear customer service representative, through no fault of your own, I am beyond pissed, I am in fact livid at Ecco shoes. The Background: I have worn Ecco shoes and boots all around the world for over a decade. Sadly, one of my pets ruined my two pairs of Ecco Calf length boots recently and I hopped onto your site to check what boots were available. I bought a pair of SARTORELLE 25 Boots - EC-00681395 order. The boots were much too tall and large in the calf. So I went to make a return. There was no return shipping label. I called Customer Service and asked why no shipping label was included. She responded that I was in charge of the return and recommended USPS. I took the box today, which is large, and had to pay a whopping $47 for USPS Ground shipping and $4 for signature confirmation. That is $51 dollars to return a $275 dollar pair of boots. I am LIVID. The FB message person mentioned on my comment that there is free returns for people who make an account on the site. Why was this not mentioned before I spent the equivalent of dinner out for a family of four? I need this resolved please as I will be sad to never again purchase your shoes, which I do in fact love. I would appreciate your attention to this matter and the refund of my $51. Thank you, Katie Cline
662 Who Are The  Winvestors? (WE ARE THE CHAMPIONS)
Had my first Starbucks in over a year yesterday. Coffee is on the don’t eat list. But I decided to snag a java chip frappuccino. Is there even coffee in that? I get it for the whipped cream.
Somehow I missed national donut day last week. Happy donut day! Do we need a day to celebrate donuts.
National Ball Point Pen Day - Lett's not take the ballpoint pen for granted. The invention of the ballpoint pen in 1943, can be counted among the great inventions of the 20th century. It's right up there, with the invention of canned beer!. Without it, we would still be using a messy fountain pen, or frequently dipping a quill into an ink jar.
https://www.roboadvisorpros.com/ellevest-review-robo-advisor-for-women/
SONG - CLIP
When you can’t think of anything intelligent to say that would make you look really smart - just make up something using big words. That’s what I do and you see that it’s gotten me really far in life.
Winvesting -
ATTENTION
PROBLEM
Chasing returns.
Not understanding risk. At all.
Following some financial pied pipers, talking head, or billionaire’s advice just because they have some money, or they may have helped someone in the past.
That’s investing, not Winvesting.
Are you Investing or Winvesting?
Because I want to be a Winvestor. Because winners win. And I know something about you, you’re a winner. Winners listen to this show. Losers believe in pies in the sky, pay for someone else’s pie, will never beat the winners, and will never realize it until it’s too late.
All I ask is for you to follow the money. They use their half math, fake math, and mute math
SOLUTION
I was really excited about the following. Until I wasn’t. Because I took the time to read.
ElleVest
Ellevest is a transformative technology company created to help women achieve their financial potential. Ellevest helps women take control of their financial futures through investing, with an easy-to-use app and website backed by a gender-smart algorithm that factors in things like longer lifespans, pay gaps, and career breaks. Ellevest was co-founded by Wall Street veteran Sallie Krawcheck, chair of the Ellevate Network, previously CEO of Smith Barney and Merrill Lynch Wealth Management, formerly CFO of Citi, and author of “Own It: The Power of Women at Work.” Ellevest has raised $70MM from investors like Rethink Impact, Pivotal Ventures, Valerie Jarrett, Salesforce Ventures, PayPal Ventures, MasterCard, Khosla Ventures, Morningstar, and Venus Williams.
Ellevest has flipped the traditional approach to investing with a real-life, goal-based approach. Clients select personal financial goals such as buying a home, starting a business, raising a family, and retiring well, among others. Ellevest is unique in taking into account a woman’s longer lifespan and different salary curve, combined with her current financial picture, to construct highly customized investment portfolios for each of her goals. Ellevest’s unique algorithms are designed to get the client to her goal number or better in 70% of market scenarios, higher than traditional financial advisors.
Page 4: “We believe”
We believe
We believe
And that’s where they lost me.
"The objective of goal-based investing is to help you reach your goals, not simply to maximize returns.”
LOVE THIS!
I mean it’s what I’ve been teaching all along. It’s a little more eloquent.
DFA:
Eugene F. Fama, 2013 Nobel laureate in Economic Sciences, is the principal scholar whose groundbreaking work inspired the founding of Dimensional. Widely recognized as the "father of modern finance," Professor Fama developed the efficient market hypothesis.
Myron S. Scholes -
Kenneth R. French is the Roth Family Distinguished Professor of Finance at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College. He is an expert on the behavior of security prices and investment strategies. He and coauthor Eugene F.
Fama
are well known for their research into the value effect and the three- and five-factor models, including articles such as “The Cross-Section of Expected Stock Returns” and “Common Risk Factors in the Returns on Stocks and Bonds.” His recent research focuses on patterns in expected returns in domestic and international financial markets and tests of asset pricing models.
ACTION
At the end day, people can believe what they want to believe. I believe in big brain studies using 50+ years of research. Not what some is trying to sell me on to enrich themselves at my expense.
At the end of my life, people can believe what they want to believe. I believe I’ll have more money. So I can generously tip the other poor saps behind the counter to help them out when they ask me - Do you want fries with that. All because they followed bad advice. They weren’t Winvestors.
Ladies, Moms, grandmoms, wives, daughters, I love you dearly. From the bottom of my heart, I want to do everything I can to empower you. I truly want you to be a Winvestor. It sickens me, the sexism that still exists today. I don’t get it. I do and I don’t. Most guys are jerks. It’s a gene I think we’re born with. So I have great empathy for someone who is confused when it comes to money.
Anyone that wants to work with a financial advisor that isn’t a dude, drop me a note. I know a couple brilliant minds I’ll refer you to. They are like me, but much smarter, better hair, and not nearly as funny. Gretchen, Katie, Hannah, they are killer CFPs. If you need a referral, let me know.
Jahnvi
having financial freedom looks to me like being able to live my life without worrying about my loved ones’ financial status. It means letting my mother retire early and sending my sister to the medical school of her choice—all without crippling debt and a decent lifestyle of my own.
HTML Content
dr_adam_corrales
I’m engaging in this because this was how I accidentally saw a post about
@ashley_foster_fx
and I decided to give it a try with $1000 and I earned $5,200 in less than 2 weeks.
662 Questions
Dany
Have you covered the CARE act. have some questions on it specially the provision of 100k withdrawl without penalty.
Here’s a broad overview:
* Individuals affected by COVID-19 can withdraw up to $100,000 from employee-sponsored retirement accounts like 401(k)s and 403(b)s, as well as personal retirement accounts, such as traditional individual retirement accounts, or a combination of these.
* The 10% penalty will be waived for distributions made in 2020.
* There are no mandatory withholding requirements.
* The distribution can be taxed as income spread evenly over tax years 2020, 2021 and 2022. However, if you can pay back the amount you took out within three years, you can claim a refund on those taxes.
* 401(k) plan participants can now take out 100% of their vested balance (previous rules limited borrowers to 50%) as a loan up to $100,000, and payments on this loan can be delayed for up to one year.
Who is eligible for coronavirus-related distributions?
If you, your spouse or a dependent have been diagnosed with COVID-19, you qualify for the above benefits. However, eligibility for coronavirus-related distributions extends well beyond those who have been diagnosed, including:
* Any individual who has experienced “adverse financial consequences” because they’ve been quarantined or furloughed, or because their hours at work were cut.
* Individuals who haven’t been able to work because they’ve had to stay home to take care of their kids.
* Business owners who have had to slash operating hours or shut down due to the outbreak.
401(k) loans versus 401(k) distributions: Which to choose?
With these new rules, the lines between a 401(k) loan and withdrawal can become a bit blurred. Both let you access up to $100,000 of your retirement funds penalty- and tax-free, but there are slight differences.
If you take a withdrawal:
* Repayment isn’t required.
* There’s no withdrawal penalty.
* It will be taxed as income initially, though you can claim a refund if you pay back the distribution in three years.
* You have tax options.
If you take a loan:
* Repayment is required within a specified time frame, typically five years.
* The loan amount is not taxed initially, and there is no penalty. However, if you can’t pay it back in five years, the outstanding balance will be taxed as if it were a withdrawal, and you’ll also pay the 10% early withdrawal penalty.
* All loan payments due in 2020 can be delayed for up to one year from the time you take out the loan.
* If you leave your job, you have until mid-October of the following year to pay back the entirety of the loan. If you don’t pay it back, you’ll be hit with early withdrawal taxes and penalties.
Don’t go borrowing your own money to go invest in bitcoin yo!
Hey, as the last resort of last resorts, it can be cheaper to borrow from yourself than to pay 25% interest on a credit card.
Jeff, Colorado
My question is about refinancing and saving for kids college. I plan to refinance my house and am debating whether or not I do a cash out refinance to contribute to my kids college educations. I have 3 kids (4, 2, & 8 weeks). I've been contributing to their 529s since birth but I am thinking I'd complete their accounts with a cash out refi (planning to fund half their college with 529s). I'd be pulling out approximately $40k. House is worth $430k, I owe $118k and I am in my 7th year into a 30 year mortgage (we were on the Dave Ramsey plan for several years paying down debt).
Best 30 year traditional refi rate I've been quoted is 2.99% for $118k
Best 30 year cash out refi rate I've been quoted is 3.375% for $160k
Current mortgage is 30 year at 4.375%
Dept free except for the house
35 years old
$500k+ in retirement savings, 95% from hard work and consistency. Construction and a PHY assistant.
Even if I refi I still plan to pay the home off early. Probably within 10-15 years depending on which route I take but I like the flexibility of the the 30 year mortgage if we need to save for a major expense.
Would you recommend a cash out refi to finance their educations? Should I pull equity out of my house to make this investment?
Matt, Gainsville, GA
My wife and I purchased a home in September using a VA loan and got a 3.25% 30 year fixed. I've recently been receiving lots of mail about refinancing. The latest says it can do 2.25% 30 year fixed. Our current loan is through navy federal, and I trust them.
I dont trust my junk mail, but I'm curious if I'm missing out. We don't have a lot of extra cash to cover closing costs, and we're looking at moving again in a few years, so im not sure what to do. Any advice?
Also, in your most recent episode, you said when you get an email from someone from some remote place asking for money you dont respond. If I'm not in a remote place will you send me money? Jk. Keep up the great work
661
Roth conversions
Tax planning
Mortgage refi
Housing/cars/deals
Checking beneficiaries
Car buying checklist
660 Sticking It To The Credit Card Companies
Travel hack - AA / Incognito trick
20 year boat loans? $422/month, $65,000 boat. 5% interest
Kids jobs
Investing scams
Saving feels good. Watching the amount in the rainy-day fund, savings jar or retirement account grow can encourage savers to stick with healthy financial habits.
The coronavirus pandemic and the resulting economic downturn have forced many to put those goals on hold. However, maintaining a savings mind-set could help keep your focus on the long-term.
“Before you can be future-oriented, you have to first take care of your short-term needs,” said Abigail Sussman, an associate professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. “So this isn’t an issue of ‘Stop buying that extra cup of coffee at Starbucks,’ which is a commonly-touted savings strategy. That isn’t people’s main problem.”
But pausing saving doesn’t have to mean losing heart. In the midst of economic turmoil, here are some tips on how to pivot without giving up on your goals altogether.
Don’t slam the brakes.
Figure out your motives.
Maximize what you have. - move to high interest savings
Extend your horizon.
Staying positive in the midst of delaying a long-planned goal can be difficult, Ms. Lane acknowledges. But she said she often reviews clients’ financial plans and histories and finds that stopping saving or delaying retirement, homeownership or some other milestone for a year doesn’t ultimately hurt these people and their financial health. Research shows
making a plan to catch up
is key to recovering those savings.
ACTION
She recommends setting a calendar date for when you can think about resuming the goal. Moving that time frame further down the road alleviates some of the immediate pressure to catch up or make up for lost savings, but it also allows you to stay positive about the future.
Working from home is killing our backs
Makayla Nelson, a high-school senior, developed neck pain and headaches from spending long stretches with her laptop sitting in a recliner or on her bed.
Weeks of poor ergonomics on the bed or sofa have led to backaches, neck pain and headaches
Chritopher:
Articles like this make me roll my eyes in exasperation over the pampered ultra-narcissistic upper class American who has the luxury of a generous workplace space at home and the privilege to be able to work from the discomfort of his sofa. Poor baby. A billion people -- a billion -- don't even have the most basic facility to wash their hands, the key way of keeping safe from coronavirus, and we get a diet of articles about woe-is-me Americans' poor necks and backs.  Nauseating. (And don't even get  me going about how many tens of millions more of the poorest and most vulnerable across the globe are at more risk than ever of dying of preventable illness and malnutrition because of the pandemic.)
Reply JC:
Then don't read "article like this" since you don't care about anyone who's not the poorest of the poor.
Darlene:
After 5-weeks of teleworking  from a Lazy-Boy recliner and a TV table for my laptop (set up in my bedroom), I finally broke down and purchased a small desk and a small, ergonomic chair for my bedroom.  My back, neck and knees THANKED me. It appears that many of us will have to work from home off and on for the foreseeable future, so if you can afford to purchase a basic office setup, it is well worth the investment.
I think. I believe. My opinion.
Don’t miss out on the best trading days.
https://www.putnam.com/literature/pdf/II508-d206c267bdc67daad04ae51e1e47a6d4.pdf
$158B in AUM
RPOF: $4.4B AUM
Absolute fear mongering to get people in as his clients. 1929 it took 25 years to get back to even. Y2k it took 8 years. 2008 it took 5 years.
First that’s wrong, it was 4. Maybe he was rounding up. Because it sounds worse.
The s&p 500.
Whoops. There’s the problem folks. There’s actually two.
#1. Only someone following terrible advice has everything in an S&P 500. So we’re comparing apples to peanut butter captain crunch.
#2. When you need money, you sell the stuff that isn’t down. That way you’re not losing money. Easy, right? If I bought a chair for $100. And I sell the chair for $100. How much money do I have? $100. How much did I lose? $0. What did I make? $0.
If I have two chairs. I paid $100 for each of them. One is now worth $70. The other, still $100. I need $100. Which one am I selling if I don’t want to lose money? The blue one.
Hey how about after 9/11?
54 days.
I don’t take advice from broke people. And if I’m like buying life insurance from a company that’s worth $158B and has been around since 1930, and one that’s worth $4B and has been around for 20 years. Guess who i’m going with? The one with the 90 year track record.
659
Madge,
On a much brighter note, I got certified as a medical coder and then went back to school and just graduated this month with an Associates in business administration! Not that much of a big degree but it is huge for me since I quit high school when I was 16. It’s a huge accomplishment and I am very proud of myself, not to toot my own horn! I am hoping this new degree takes me out of the medical billing field and into something different. I love medical coding, but billing and collections is downright stressful. Although I am making about $2 more an hour than I was when I first reached out to you, which has helped a lot, I am no where close to being able to afford rent. Even if I split it. A 2 bedroom apartment around here is $1200 + utilities. So I feel fortunate for all my accomplishments, but still stuck. I pray things will change, I’m not sure if that works but it does give me hope so I can continue to do it. I’ll never forget you helping me and my kids out for Christmas, it turned out to be an amazing Christmas! I spend a lot of time with my 21 year old daughter, amazingly she still loves to hang out with me lol. My two sons (ages 22 & 23) don’t want to hang out with mom, but I get it haha that’s fine. They all keep my smiling and that’s what keeps me going.  Thank you so much for reaching out to me! I hope you and your family are doing well.
Lena,
Like you said, Knowing WHY I am working towards my big goal is vital. I want to start to grow in my finances now, so I can set my future family up for the future. I have never been able to travel as much as I would like to, and taking control of my finances now will ultimately enable me to afford my future lifestyle I desire.Having financial freedom means I won't have to fear the future, because I will have a stronghold with my finances. I want to aim high and live the lifestyle I have always wanted. And I believe with hard work and a positive attitude I am able to take flight and achieve my goals. Thank you for taking your time to reach out to me.
Herb,
The main reason I send this email is to thank you for all that you do. You are an authentic person with a heart to genuinely help people and I appreciate that. You are if nothing else a good role model. Thanks Brother! Rock on!!
Herb Hollidge
Dwight,
During the last several months of stories about the economic impact of the covid-19 crisis on families across America I am continually reminded of the advice I've heard, read, and viewed.  What's that advice? Have an emergency fund of 3 to 6 months or something similar depending on someone's situation.  Story after story about the trials and tribulations Americans face almost all seem to have the same theme of, "I'm out of work and now I'm in trouble."  Most shutdowns started sometime in March and so now it has been about 2 months.  If someone is prepared, they would just now be getting close to the "I'm in trouble" stage.  I wish more stories would put some of the light on this fact.  The motto of the Boy Scouts is "Be Prepared".   Wouldn't it be great if more folks took that to heart and started the journey towards financial independence.  Thanks for your inspiration and the fun and humorous way you educate us all.